














































THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART – III – SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

NEW DELHI, JANUARY 15, 2015 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the 15th January, 2015 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

(PROHIBITION OF INSIDER TRADING) REGULATIONS, 2015 

No. LAD-NRO/GN/2014-15/21/85.- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 read with 

clause (g) of sub-section (2) of section 11 and clause (d) and clause (e) of section 12A of the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Board hereby makes the 

following regulations, to put in place a framework for prohibition of insider trading in securities 

and to strengthen the legal framework thereof, namely:— 

 

CHAPTER – I 

 

PRELIMINARY 

 

Short title and commencement. 

1. (1) These regulations may be called the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 

Regulations, 2015. 

 

(2) These regulations shall come into force on the one hundred and twentieth day from the 

date of its publication in the Official Gazette. 



 

Definitions. 

2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words, 

expressions and derivations therefrom shall have the meanings assigned to them as under:–  

 

(a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 

 

(b) “Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India; 

 

(c)  “compliance officer” means any senior officer, designated so and reporting to the 

board of directors or head of the organization in case board is not there, who is 

financially literate and is capable of appreciating requirements for legal and regulatory 

compliance under these regulations and who shall be responsible for compliance of 

policies, procedures, maintenance of records, monitoring adherence to the rules for the 

preservation of unpublished price sensitive information, monitoring of trades and the 

implementation of the codes specified in these regulations under the overall supervision 

of the board of directors of the listed company or the head of an organization, as the case 

may be. 

 

1[Explanation – For the purpose of this regulation, “financially literate” shall mean a 

person who has the ability to read and understand basic financial statements i.e. balance 

sheet, profit and loss account, and statement of cash flows]; 

 

(d) "connected person" means,- 

(i) any person who is or has during the six months prior to the concerned act been 

associated with a company, directly or indirectly, in any capacity including by 

reason of frequent communication with its officers or by being in any contractual, 

fiduciary or employment relationship or by being a director, officer or an 

employee of the company or holds any position including a professional or 

                                                           
1 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 



business relationship between himself and the company whether temporary or 

permanent, that allows such person, directly or indirectly, access to unpublished 

price sensitive information or is reasonably expected to allow such access.  

 

(ii) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, the persons falling within 

the following categories shall be deemed to be connected persons unless the 

contrary is established, -  

(a). an immediate relative of connected persons specified in clause (i); or  

(b). a holding company or associate company or subsidiary company; or 

(c). an intermediary as specified in section 12 of the Act or an employee or 

director thereof; or  

(d). an investment company, trustee company, asset management company or 

an employee or director thereof; or  

(e). an official of a stock exchange or of clearing house or corporation; or 

(f). a member of board of trustees of a mutual fund or a member of the board 

of directors of the asset management company of a mutual fund or is an 

employee thereof; or  

(g). a member of the board of directors or an employee, of a public financial 

institution as defined in section 2 (72) of the Companies Act, 2013; or 

(h). an official or an employee of a self-regulatory organization recognised or 

authorized by the Board; or 

(i). a banker of the company; or 

(j). a concern, firm, trust, Hindu undivided family, company or association of 

persons wherein a director of a company or his immediate relative or 

banker of the company, has more than ten per cent. of the holding or 

interest; 

 

NOTE: It is intended that a connected person is one who has a connection with 

the company that is expected to put him in possession of unpublished price sensitive 

information. Immediate relatives and other categories of persons specified above are also 

presumed to be connected persons but such a presumption is a deeming legal fiction and 



is rebuttable. This definition is also intended to bring into its ambit persons who may not 

seemingly occupy any position in a company but are in regular touch with the company 

and its officers and are involved in the know of  the company’s operations. It is intended 

to bring within its ambit those who would have access to or could access unpublished 

price sensitive information about any company or class of companies by virtue of any 

connection that would put them in possession of unpublished price sensitive information.  

 

(e) "generally available information" means information that is accessible to the 

public on a non-discriminatory basis; 

 

NOTE: It is intended to define what constitutes generally available information so 

that it is easier to crystallize and appreciate what unpublished price sensitive information 

is.  Information published on the website of a stock exchange, would ordinarily be 

considered generally available.   

 

(f)  “immediate relative” means a spouse of a person, and includes parent, sibling, and 

child of such person or of the spouse, any of whom is either dependent financially on 

such person, or consults such person in taking decisions relating to trading in securities; 

 

NOTE:  It is intended that the immediate relatives of a “connected person” too 

become connected persons for purposes of these regulations. Indeed, this is a rebuttable 

presumption. 

 

(g) "insider" means any person who is: 

 

i)  a connected person; or  

 

ii)  in possession of or having access to unpublished price sensitive 

information;  

 



NOTE: Since “generally available information” is defined, it is intended that 

anyone in possession of or having access to unpublished price sensitive information 

should be considered an “insider” regardless of how one came in possession of or had 

access to such information. Various circumstances are provided for such a person to 

demonstrate that he has not indulged in insider trading. Therefore, this definition is 

intended to bring within its reach any person who is in receipt of or has access to 

unpublished price sensitive information. The onus of showing that a certain person was 

in possession of or had access to unpublished price sensitive information at the time of 

trading would, therefore, be on the person leveling the charge after which the person who 

has traded when in possession of or having access to unpublished price sensitive 

information may demonstrate that he was not in such possession or that he has not traded 

or or he could not access or that his trading when in possession of such information was 

squarely covered by the exonerating circumstances.   

 

(h) "promoter" shall have the meaning assigned to it under the Securities and 

Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 

2[2018] or any modification thereof; 

 

3[(ha)  "promoter group" shall have the meaning assigned to it under the Securities and Exchange 

Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 or any 

modification thereof;] 

 

4[(5[hb]) “proposed to be listed” shall include securities of an unlisted company: 

(i) if such unlisted company has filed offer documents or other documents, as the 

case may be, with the Board, stock exchange(s) or registrar of companies in 

connection with the listing; or  

                                                           
2 Substituted for the number “2009” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)   
3 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2019 (w.e.f. January 21, 2019) 
4 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
5 Re-numbered by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. January 21, 2019) 



(ii) if such unlisted company is getting listed pursuant to any merger or 

amalgamation and has filed a copy of such scheme of merger or amalgamation 

under the Companies Act, 2013;] 

 

(i) "securities" shall have the meaning assigned to it under the Securities Contracts 

(Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) or any modification thereof except units of a mutual 

fund;  

 

(j) "specified" means specified by the Board in writing; 

 

(k) “takeover regulations” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 and any 

amendments thereto; 

 

(l) "trading" means and includes subscribing, buying, selling, dealing, or agreeing to 

subscribe, buy, sell, deal in any securities, and "trade" shall be construed accordingly ; 

 

NOTE: Under the parliamentary mandate, since the Section 12A (e) and Section 

15G of the Act employs the term 'dealing in securities', it is intended to widely define the 

term “trading” to include dealing. Such a construction is intended to curb the activities 

based on unpublished price sensitive information which are strictly not buying, selling or 

subscribing, such as pledging etc when in possession of unpublished price sensitive 

information.   

 

(m) “trading day” means a day on which the recognized stock exchanges are open for 

trading; 

 

(n) "unpublished price sensitive information" means any information, relating to a 

company or its securities, directly or indirectly, that is not generally available which upon 

becoming generally available, is likely to materially affect the price of the securities and 

shall, ordinarily including but not restricted to, information relating to the following: – 



 

(i) financial results; 

 

(ii) dividends; 

 

(iii) change in capital structure;  

 

(iv) mergers, de-mergers, acquisitions, delistings, disposals and expansion of business 

and such other transactions;  

 

(v) changes in key managerial personnel. 

 

6[***].  

 

NOTE: It is intended that information relating to a company or securities, that is 

not generally available would be unpublished price sensitive information if it is likely to 

materially affect the price upon coming into the public domain. The types of matters that 

would ordinarily give rise to unpublished price sensitive information have been listed 

above to give illustrative guidance of unpublished price sensitive information.  

 

(2) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Securities Contracts 

(Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996) or the Companies 

Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) and rules and regulations made thereunder shall have the meanings 

respectively assigned to them in those legislation. 

 

CHAPTER – II  

 

RESTRICTIONS ON COMMUNICATION AND TRADING BY INSIDERS 

                                                           
6 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as follows: 

“(vi) material events in accordance with the listing agreement” 



 

Communication or procurement of unpublished price sensitive information. 

3. (1) No insider shall communicate, provide, or allow access to any unpublished price 

sensitive information, relating to a company or securities listed or proposed to be listed, to any 

person including other insiders except where such communication is in furtherance of legitimate 

purposes, performance of duties or discharge of legal obligations.  

 

NOTE: This provision is intended to cast an obligation on all insiders who are essentially 

persons in possession of unpublished price sensitive information to handle such information with 

care and to deal with the information with them when transacting their business strictly on a 

need-to-know basis.  It is also intended to lead to organisations developing practices based on 

need-to-know principles for treatment of information in their possession. 

 

(2) No person shall procure from or cause the communication by any insider of unpublished 

price sensitive information, relating to a company or securities listed or proposed to be listed, 

except in furtherance of legitimate purposes, performance of duties or discharge of legal 

obligations. 

 

NOTE: This provision is intended to impose a prohibition on unlawfully procuring 

possession of unpublished price sensitive information.  Inducement and procurement of 

unpublished price sensitive information not in furtherance of one’s legitimate duties and 

discharge of obligations would be illegal under this provision. 

 

7[(2A)  The board of directors of a listed company shall make a policy for determination of 

“legitimate purposes” as a part of “Codes of Fair Disclosure and Conduct” formulated under 

regulation 8. 

 

Explanation – For the purpose of illustration, the term “legitimate purpose” shall include sharing 

of unpublished price sensitive information in the ordinary course of business by an insider with 

                                                           
7 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019).  



partners, collaborators, lenders, customers, suppliers, merchant bankers, legal advisors, auditors, 

insolvency professionals or other advisors or consultants, provided that such sharing has not been 

carried out to evade or circumvent the prohibitions of these regulations.] 

 

8[(2B)  Any person in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information pursuant to a “legitimate 

purpose” shall be considered an “insider” for purposes of these regulations and due notice shall 

be given to such persons to maintain confidentiality of such unpublished price sensitive 

information in compliance with these regulations.] 

  

(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this regulation, an unpublished price sensitive 

information may be communicated, provided, allowed access to or procured, in connection with 

a transaction that would:– 

 

(i) entail an obligation to make an open offer under the takeover regulations where 

the board of directors of the 9[listed] company is of informed opinion that 10[sharing of 

such information] is in the best interests of the company; 

 

NOTE: It is intended to acknowledge the necessity of communicating, providing, 

allowing access to or procuring UPSI for substantial transactions such as takeovers, 

mergers and acquisitions involving trading in securities and change of control to assess a 

potential investment.  In an open offer under the takeover regulations, not only would the 

same price be made available to all shareholders of the company but also all information 

necessary to enable an informed divestment or retention decision by the public 

shareholders is required to be made available to all shareholders in the letter of offer 

under those regulations.   

 

                                                           
8 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
9 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
10 Substituted for the words “the proposed transaction” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 

Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019). 



(ii) not attract the obligation to make an open offer under the takeover regulations but 

where the board of directors of the 11[listed] company is of informed opinion 12[that 

sharing of such information] is in the best interests of the company and the information 

that constitute unpublished price sensitive information is disseminated to be made 

generally available at least two trading days prior to the proposed transaction being 

effected in such form as the board of directors may determine 13[to be adequate and fair 

to cover all relevant and material facts]. 

 

NOTE: It is intended to permit communicating, providing, allowing access to or 

procuring UPSI also in transactions that do not entail an open offer obligation under the 

takeover regulations 14[when authorised by the board of directors if sharing of such 

information] is in the best interests of the company. The board of directors, however, 

would cause public disclosures of such unpublished price sensitive information well 

before the proposed transaction to rule out any information  asymmetry in the market. 

 

(4) For purposes of sub-regulation (3), the board of directors shall require the parties to 

execute agreements to contract confidentiality and non-disclosure obligations on the part of such 

parties and such parties shall keep information so received confidential, except for the purpose of 

sub-regulation (3), and shall not otherwise trade in securities of the company when in possession 

of unpublished price sensitive information. 

 

15[(5) The board of directors shall ensure that a structured digital database is maintained 

containing the names of such persons or entities as the case may be with whom information is 

shared under this regulation along with the Permanent Account Number or any other identifier 

authorized by law where Permanent Account Number is not available. Such databases shall be 

                                                           
11 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
12 Substituted for the words “that the proposed transaction” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition 

of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
13 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
14 Substituted for the words “if it” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
15 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 



maintained with adequate internal controls and checks such as time stamping and audit trails to 

ensure non-tampering of the database.] 

 

Trading when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information. 

4. (1) No insider shall trade in securities that are listed or proposed to be listed on a 

stock exchange when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information: 

 

16[Explanation –When a person who has traded in securities has been in possession of 

unpublished price sensitive information, his trades would be presumed to have been motivated 

by the knowledge and awareness of such information in his possession.] 

 

 Provided that the insider may prove his innocence by demonstrating the circumstances 

including the following: – 

 

(i) the transaction is an off-market inter-se transfer between 17[insiders] who were in 

possession of the same unpublished price sensitive information without being in breach 

of regulation 3 and both parties had made a conscious and informed trade decision. 

 

18[Provided that such unpublished price sensitive information was not obtained under 

sub-regulation (3) of regulation 3 of these regulations. 

 

Provided further that such off-market trades shall be reported by the insiders to the 

company within two working days. Every company shall notify the particulars of such 

trades to the stock exchange on which the securities are listed within two trading days 

from receipt of the disclosure or from becoming aware of such information.]; 

 

                                                           
16 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
17 Substituted for the word “promoters” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
18 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 



19[(ii) the transaction was carried out through the block deal window mechanism between 

persons who were in possession of the unpublished price sensitive information without 

being in breach of regulation 3 and both parties had made a conscious and informed trade 

decision; 

Provided that such unpublished price sensitive information was not obtained by either 

person under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 3 of these regulations. 

  

(iii) the transaction in question was carried out pursuant to a statutory or regulatory 

obligation to carry out a bona fide transaction.  

 

(iv) the transaction in question was undertaken pursuant to the exercise of stock options 

in respect of which the exercise price was pre-determined in compliance with applicable 

regulations.] 

 

(v) in the case of non-individual insiders: –  

 

(a)  the individuals who were in possession of such unpublished price sensitive 

information were different from the individuals taking trading decisions and such 

decision-making individuals were not in possession of such unpublished price 

sensitive information when they took the decision to trade; and 

 

(b) appropriate and adequate arrangements were in place to ensure that these 

regulations are not violated and no unpublished price sensitive information was 

communicated by the individuals possessing the information to the individuals 

taking trading decisions and there is no evidence of such arrangements having 

been breached; 

 

(vi) the trades were pursuant to a trading plan set up in accordance with regulation 5. 

 

                                                           
19 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 



NOTE: When a person who has traded in securities has been in possession of 

unpublished price sensitive information, his trades would be presumed to have been 

motivated by the knowledge and awareness of such information in his possession. The 

reasons for which he trades or the purposes to which he applies the proceeds of the 

transactions are not intended to be relevant for determining whether a person has 

violated the regulation. He traded when in possession of unpublished price sensitive 

information is what would need to be demonstrated at the outset to bring a charge. Once 

this is established, it would be open to the insider to prove his innocence by 

demonstrating the circumstances mentioned in the proviso, failing which he would have 

violated the prohibition. 

 

(2)  In the case of connected persons the onus of establishing, that they were not in possession 

of unpublished price sensitive information, shall be on such connected persons and in other 

cases, the onus would be on the Board.  

 

(3) The Board may specify such standards and requirements, from time to time, as it may 

deem necessary for the purpose of these regulations. 

 

Trading Plans. 

5. (1) An insider shall be entitled to formulate a trading plan and present it to the 

compliance officer for approval and public disclosure pursuant to which trades may be carried 

out on his behalf in accordance with such plan.  

 

NOTE: This provision intends to give an option to persons who may be perpetually in 

possession of unpublished price sensitive information and enabling them to trade in securities in 

a compliant manner.  This provision would enable the formulation of a trading plan by an 

insider to enable him to plan for trades to be executed in future.  By doing so, the possession of 

unpublished price sensitive information when a trade under a trading plan is actually executed 

would not prohibit the execution of such trades that he had pre-decided even before the 

unpublished price sensitive information came into being.  



 

(2) Such trading plan shall:–  

 

(i) not entail commencement of trading on behalf of the insider earlier than six 

months from the public disclosure of the plan; 

 

NOTE: It is intended that to get the benefit of a trading plan, a cool-off period of 

six months is necessary. Such a period is considered reasonably long for unpublished 

price sensitive information that is in possession of the insider when formulating the 

trading plan, to become generally available.  It is also considered to be a reasonable 

period for a time lag in which new unpublished price sensitive information may come into 

being without adversely affecting the trading plan formulated earlier. In any case, it 

should be remembered that this is only a statutory cool-off period and would not grant 

immunity from action if the insider were to be in possession of the same unpublished 

price sensitive information both at the time of formulation of the plan and implementation 

of the same.  

  

(ii) not entail trading for the period between the twentieth trading day prior to the last 

day of any financial period for which results are required to be announced by the issuer of 

the securities and the second trading day after the disclosure of such financial results; 

 

NOTE: Since the trading plan is envisaged to be an exception to the general rule 

prohibiting trading by insiders when in possession of unpublished price sensitive 

information, it is important that the trading plan does not entail trading for a reasonable 

period around the declaration of financial results as that would generate unpublished 

price sensitive information.  

 

(iii) entail trading for a period of not less than twelve months; 

 

NOTE: It is intended that it would be undesirable to have frequent announcements 

of trading plans for short periods of time rendering meaningless the defence of a 



reasonable time gap between the decision to trade and the actual trade.  Hence it is felt 

that a reasonable time would be twelve months.  

 

(iv) not entail overlap of any period for which another trading plan is already in 

existence;  

 

NOTE: It is intended that it would be undesirable to have multiple trading plans 

operating during the same time period.  Since it would be possible for an insider to time 

the publication of the unpublished price sensitive information to make it generally 

available instead of timing the trades, it is important not to have the ability to initiate 

more than one plan covering the same time period.  

 

(v) set out either the value of trades to be effected or the number of securities to be 

traded along with the nature of the trade and the intervals at, or dates on which such 

trades shall be effected; and  

 

NOTE: It is intended that while regulations should not be too prescriptive and 

rigid about what a trading plan should entail, they should stipulate certain basic 

parameters that a trading plan should conform to and within which, the plan may be 

formulated with full flexibility.  The nature of the trades entailed in the trading plan i.e. 

acquisition or disposal should be set out. The trading plan may set out the value of 

securities or the number of securities to be invested or divested.  Specific dates or specific 

time intervals may be set out in the plan.  

 

(vi)  not entail trading in securities for market abuse. 

 

NOTE: Trading on the basis of such a trading plan would not grant absolute immunity 

from bringing proceedings for market abuse. For instance, in the event of manipulative 

timing of the release of unpublished price sensitive information to ensure that trading 

under a trading plan becomes lucrative in circumvention of regulation 4 being detected, 

it would be open to initiate proceedings for alleged breach of SEBI (Prohibition of 



Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to the Securities Market) Regulations, 

2003. 

  

(3) The compliance officer shall review the trading plan to assess whether the plan would 

have any potential for violation of these regulations and shall be entitled to seek such express 

undertakings as may be necessary to enable such assessment and to approve and monitor the 

implementation of the plan. 

 

20[Provided that pre-clearance of trades shall not be required for a trade executed as per an 

approved trading plan.  

 

Provided further that trading window norms and restrictions on contra trade shall not be 

applicable for trades carried out in accordance with an approved trading plan.]     

 

NOTE: It is intended that the compliance officer would have to review and approve the 

plan.  For doing so, he may need the insider to declare that he is not in possession of 

unpublished price sensitive information or that he would ensure that any unpublished price 

sensitive information in his possession becomes generally available before he commences 

executing his trades.  Once satisfied, he may approve the trading plan, which would then have to 

be implemented in accordance with these regulations.  

 

(4) The trading plan once approved shall be irrevocable and the insider shall mandatorily 

have to implement the plan, without being entitled to either deviate from it or to execute any 

trade in the securities outside the scope of the trading plan.  

 

Provided that the implementation of the trading plan shall not be commenced if any unpublished 

price sensitive information in possession of the insider at the time of formulation of the plan has 

not become generally available at the time of the commencement of implementation and in such 

event the compliance officer shall confirm that the commencement ought to be deferred until 

                                                           
20 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 



such unpublished price sensitive information becomes generally available information so as to 

avoid a violation of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4. 

 

NOTE: It is intended that since the trading plan is an exception to the general rule that an 

insider should not trade when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information, changing 

the plan or trading outside the same would negate the intent behind the exception.  Other 

investors in the market, too, would factor the impact of the trading plan on their own trading 

decisions and in price discovery.  Therefore, it is not fair or desirable to permit the insider to 

deviate from the trading plan based on which others in the market have assessed their views on 

the securities.  

 

The proviso is intended to address the prospect that despite the six-month gap between the 

formulation of the trading plan and its commencement, the unpublished price sensitive 

information in possession of the insider is still not generally available.  In such a situation, 

commencement of the plan would conflict with the over-riding principle that trades should not be 

executed when in possession of such information. If the very same unpublished price sensitive 

information is still in the insider’s possession, the commencement of execution of the trading 

plan ought to be deferred.  

 

(5) Upon approval of the trading plan, the compliance officer shall notify the plan to the 

stock exchanges on which the securities are listed.     

 

NOTE: It is intended that given the material exception to the prohibitory rule in 

regulation 4, a trading plan is required to be publicly disseminated.  Investors in the market at 

large would also factor the potential pointers in the trading plan in their own assessment of the 

securities and price discovery for them on the premise of how the insiders perceive the prospects 

or approach the securities in their trading plan.  

 

 

 

 



CHAPTER – III 

 

DISCLOSURES OF TRADING BY INSIDERS 

 

General provisions. 

6. (1) Every public disclosure under this Chapter shall be made in such form as may be 

specified. 

 

(2) The disclosures to be made by any person under this Chapter shall include those relating 

to trading by such person’s immediate relatives, and by any other person for whom such person 

takes trading decisions. 

 

NOTE: It is intended that disclosure of trades would need to be of not only those executed 

by the person concerned but also by the immediate relatives and of other persons for whom the 

person concerned takes trading decisions.  These regulations are primarily aimed at preventing 

abuse by trading when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information and therefore, 

what matters is whether the person who takes trading decisions is in possession of such 

information rather than whether the person who has title to the trades is in such possession. 

 

(3) The disclosures of trading in securities shall also include trading in derivatives of 

securities and the traded value of the derivatives shall be taken into account for purposes of this 

Chapter: 

 Provided that trading in derivatives of securities is permitted by any law for the time 

being in force.  

 

(4) The disclosures made under this Chapter shall be maintained by the company, for a 

minimum period of five years, in such form as may be specified.  

 

 

 

 



Disclosures by certain persons. 

7. (1) Initial Disclosures.  

(a). Every promoter 21[, member of the promoter group] , key managerial personnel and 

director of every company whose securities are listed on any recognised stock 

exchange shall disclose his holding of securities of the company as on the date of 

these regulations taking effect, to the company within thirty days of these regulations 

taking effect; 

 

(b). Every person on appointment as a key managerial personnel or a director of the 

company or upon becoming a 22[promoter or member of the promoter group] shall 

disclose his holding of securities of the company as on the date of appointment or 

becoming a promoter, to the company within seven days of such appointment or 

becoming a promoter. 

 

 (2) Continual Disclosures.  

(a). Every promoter 23[, member of the promoter group], 24[designated person] and 

director of every company shall disclose to the company the number of such 

securities acquired or disposed of within two trading days of such transaction if the 

value of the securities traded, whether in one transaction or a series of transactions 

over any calendar quarter, aggregates to a traded value in excess of ten lakh rupees or 

such other value as may be specified; 

 

(b). Every company shall notify the particulars of such trading to the stock exchange on 

which the securities are listed within two trading days of receipt of the disclosure or 

from becoming aware of such information. 

                                                           
21  Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2019 (w.e.f. January 21, 2019) 
22 Substituted for the word "promoter" by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. January 21, 2019) 
23 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2019 (w.e.f. January 21, 2019) 
24 Substituted for the word “employee” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 



Explanation. — It is clarified for the avoidance of doubts that the disclosure of the 

incremental transactions after any disclosure under this sub-regulation, shall be made 

when the transactions effected after the prior disclosure cross the threshold specified 

in clause (a) of sub-regulation (2).  

 

Disclosures by other connected persons. 

(3) Any company whose securities are listed on a stock exchange may, at its discretion 

require any other connected person or class of connected persons to make disclosures of holdings 

and trading in securities of the company in such form and at such frequency as may be 

determined by the company in order to monitor compliance with these regulations. 

 

NOTE: This is an enabling provision for listed companies to seek information from those to 

whom it has to provide unpublished price sensitive information. This provision confers discretion 

on any company to seek such information. For example, a listed company may ask that a 

management consultant who would advise it on corporate strategy and would need to review 

unpublished price sensitive information, should make disclosures of his trades to the company.  

 

 

25[CHAPTER – IIIA 

 

Definitions. 

7A. (1) In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:- 

 

(a) ‘Investor Protection and Education Fund’ means the Investor Protection and Education 

Fund created by the Board under section 11 of the Act; 

 

(b) ‘Informant’ means an individual(s), who voluntarily submits to the Board a Voluntary 

Information Disclosure Form relating to an alleged violation of insider trading laws that 

has occurred, is occurring or has a reasonable belief that it is about to occur, in a manner 

                                                           
25 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. December 26, 2019) 



provided under these regulations, regardless of whether such individual(s) satisfies the 

requirements, procedures and conditions to qualify for a reward; 

 

(c) ‘Informant Incentive Committee’ means the High Powered Advisory Committee 

constituted by the Board in the manner as may be specified under regulation 11 of the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018. 

 

(d) ‘insider trading laws’ means the following provisions of securities laws,- 

i. Section 15G of the Act; 

ii. regulation 3 of these regulations; 

iii. regulation 4 of these regulations; 

iv. regulation 5 of these regulations; and 

v. regulation 9 or regulation 9A of these regulations, in so far as they pertain to 

trading or communication of unpublished price sensitive information. 

 

(e) ‘irrelevant, vexatious and frivolous information’ includes, reporting of information 

which in the opinion of the Board, - 

(i) Does not constitute a violation of insider trading laws; or 

(ii) Is rendered solely for the purposes of malicious prosecution; or 

(iii) Is rendered intentionally in an effort to waste the time and resource of the Board. 

  

(f) ‘Legal Representative’ means a duly authorised individual who is admitted to the 

practice of law in India; 

 

(g) ‘Monetary Sanctions’ shall mean any non-monetary settlement terms or any direction of 

the Board, in the nature of disgorgement under securities laws aggregating to at least 

Rupees one crore arising from the same operative facts contained in the original 

information. 

 

(h) ‘Original Information’ means any relevant information submitted in accordance with 

these regulations pertaining to any violation of insider trading laws that is:- 

(i) derived from the independent knowledge and analysis of the Informant; 



(ii) not known to the Board from any other source, except where the Informant is the 

original source of the information; 

(iii) is sufficiently specific, credible and timely to - (1) commence an examination or 

inquiry or audit, (2) assist in an ongoing examination or investigation or inquiry or 

audit, (3) open or re-open an investigation or inquiry, or (4) inquire into a different 

conduct as part of an ongoing examination or investigation or inquiry or audit directed 

by the Board;  

(iv) not exclusively derived from an allegation made in a judicial or administrative 

hearing, in a Governmental report, hearing, audit, or investigation, or from the news 

media, except where the Informant is the original source of the information; and  

(v) not irrelevant or frivolous or vexatious.  

Explanation. –Information which does not in the opinion of the Board add to the 

information already possessed by the Board is not original information. 

   

(i) ‘own analysis’ means the examination and evaluation of the relevant information by the 

Informant that may be publicly available, but which reveals analysis that is not known 

to SEBI: 

Provided that such analysis is not derived from professional or confidential 

communication protected under the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872); 

 

(j) ‘own knowledge’ means relevant information in the possession of the Informant not 

derived from publicly available sources: 

Provided that such knowledge is not derived from professional or confidential 

communications protected under the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872); 

 

(k) ‘Reward’ means any gratuitous monetary amount for which an Informant is declared 

eligible as per the provisions of these regulations; 

 

(l) ‘securities laws’ means the Act, the Securities Contract (Regulations) Act, 1956 (42 of 

1956), the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996), the relevant provisions of any other law 



to the extent it is administered by the Board and the relevant rules and regulations made 

thereunder; 

 

(m) ‘voluntarily providing information’ means providing the Board with information before 

receiving any request, inquiry, or demand from the Board, any other Central or State 

authorities or other statutory authority about a matter, to which the information is 

relevant; 

 

(2) Words and expressions used but not defined in these regulations but defined in securities 

laws, shall have the same meanings respectively assigned to them in those laws or any statutory 

modification or re-enactment thereto. 

  

Submission of Original Information to the Board 

7B. (1) An Informant shall submit Original Information by furnishing the Voluntary Information 

Disclosure Form to the Office of Informant Protection of the Board in the format and manner set 

out in Schedule D. The Voluntary Information Disclosure Form may be submitted through 

informant’s legal representative: 

Provided that where the Informant does not submit the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form 

through a legal representative, the Board may require such Informant to appear in person to 

ascertain his/her identity and the veracity of the information so provided. 

Explanation. – Where any information pertaining to any violation of the Securities Laws is 

received in a manner not in accordance with the manner provided under these regulations, the 

Board may require such information to be filed with it in accordance with these regulations or 

reject the same. 

 

(2) The legal representative shall,- 

i. Verify the identity and contact details of the Informant; 

ii. Unless otherwise required by the Board, maintain confidentiality of the identity and 

existence of the Informant, including the original Voluntary Information Disclosure 

Form; 

iii. Undertake and certify that he/she,- 



(a) Has reviewed the completed and signed Voluntary Information Disclosure Form for 

completeness and accuracy and that the information contained therein is true, correct 

and complete to the best of his/her knowledge; 

(b) Has obtained a irrevocable consent from the Informant to provide to the Board with 

original Voluntary Information Disclosure Form whenever required by the Board; 

and 

(c) Agrees to be legally obligated to provide the original Voluntary Information 

Disclosure Form within seven (7) calendar days of receiving such requests from the 

Board. 

iv. Submits to the Board, the copy of the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form in the 

manner provided in Schedule D of these regulations along with a signed certificate as 

required under clause (iii) of this sub-regulation (2). 

 

(3) An Informant shall while submitting the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form shall 

expunge such information from the content of the information which could reasonably be 

expected to reveal his or her identity and in case where such information cannot be expunged, 

the Informant may identify such part of information or any document that the Informant believes 

could reasonably be expected to reveal his or her identity. 

 

Receipt of Original Information by the Board 

7C. (1) The Board may designate a division to function as the independent Office of Informant 

Protection. 

 

(2) The Office of Informant Protection shall perform such functions as may be specified by the 

Board, including,- 

i. Receiving and registering the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form; 

ii. Making all necessary communications with the Informant; 

iii. Maintaining a hotline for the benefit of potential Informant; 

iv. Maintaining confidentiality of the legal representative of the Informant and act as an 

interface between the Informant and the officers of the Board; 

v. Interacting with the Informant Incentive Committee; 



vi. Issuing press releases and rewards relating to Informant; and 

vii. Submitting an annual report to the Board relating to the functioning of the Office of 

Informant Protection.  

 

(3) On receipt of the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form, the Office of Informant Protection 

shall communicate the substance of the information along with the evidence submitted by the 

informant to the relevant department or division of the Board for examination and initiation of 

necessary action, if any. 

 

(4) The Board shall not be required to send any intimation or acknowledgement to the Informant 

or any other person, of the examination or action initiated by the Board, if any, pursuant to 

receipt of the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form or information under these regulations, 

including rejection thereof. 

 

Informant Reward. 

7D. (1) Upon collection or substantial recovery of the monetary sanctions amounting to at least 

twice the Reward, the Board may at its sole discretion, declare an Informant eligible for Reward 

and intimate the Informant or his or her legal representative to file an application in the format 

provided in Schedule-E for claiming such Reward: 

Provided that the amount of Reward shall be ten percent of the monetary sanctions collected or 

recovered and shall not exceed Rupees One crore or such higher amount as the Board may 

specify from time to time: 

Provided further that the Board may if deemed fit, out of the total Reward payable, grant an 

interim reward not exceeding Rupees Ten lacs or such higher amount as the Board may specify 

from time to time, on the issue of final order by the Board against the person directed to 

disgorge. 

 

(2) In case of more than one Informant jointly providing the Original Information, the Reward, 

as specified in the intimation under sub-regulation (1), shall be divided equally amongst the total 

number of Informants. 

 



(3) The Reward under these regulations shall be paid from the Investor Protection and Education 

Fund. 

 

Determination of amount of Reward. 

7E. (1) The amount of the Reward, if payable, shall be determined by the Board. 

 

(2) While determining the amount of Reward under sub-regulation (1), the Board may specify 

the factors that may be taken into consideration by the Informant Incentive Committee. 

 

(3) An Informant may be eligible for a Reward whether or not he reported the matter to his 

organization as per its internal legal and compliance procedures and irrespective of such 

organization’s compliance officer subsequently providing the same Information to the Board. 

 

Application for Reward. 

7F. (1) Informants who are considered tentatively eligible for a Reward, shall submit the 

Informant Reward Claim Form set out in Schedule E to the Board within the period specified in 

the intimation sent by the Board. 

 

(2) Prior to the payment of a Reward, an Informant shall directly or through his or her legal 

representative, disclose his or her identity and provide such other information as the Board may 

require. 

 

Rejection of claim for Reward. 

7G. No Reward shall be made to an Informant:- 

(1) who does not submit original information; 

(2) who has acquired the Original Information, through or as a member, officer, or an employee 

of:- 

(i)  any regulatory agency constituted by or under any law in India or outside India, including 

the Board; 

(ii)  any self-regulatory organization; 



(iii)      the surveillance or investigation wings of any recognised stock exchange or clearing 

corporation; or 

(iv)  any law enforcement organization including the police or any central or state revenue 

authorities. 

(3) against whom the Board may initiate or has initiated criminal proceedings under securities laws; 

(4) who wilfully refused to cooperate with the Board during its course of investigation, inquiry, 

audit, examination or other proceedings under securities laws;  

(5) who: 

(i) knowingly makes any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or  

(ii) uses any false writing or document knowing that the writing or document contains any 

false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry; or  

(iii) fails to furnish the complete information available with him or accessible by him in 

relation to the alleged violation. 

(6) who is obligated, under any law or otherwise, to report such Original Information to the Board, 

including a compliance officer under securities laws. 

Provided that the Board may if deemed fit, at its sole discretion, exempt a person from any of 

these disqualifications. 

 

Informant confidentiality. 

7H. (1) Any information including Original Information may, at the discretion of the Board, be 

made available: 

(a) when it is required to be disclosed in connection with any legal proceedings in 

furtherance of the Board’s legal position;  

(b) as permitted by these regulations; or 

(c) as may be otherwise required or permitted by law. 

 

(2) Original Information may, at the discretion of the Board, be made available to - 

(i) any regulatory agency constituted by or under any law in India or outside India; 

(ii) any self-regulatory organization; 

(iii) the surveillance or investigation wings of any recognised stock exchange or clearing 

corporation; or 



(iv) any law enforcement organization including the police or any central or state revenue 

authorities; or 

(v) a public prosecutor in connection with any criminal proceedings. 

 

Provided that sharing of information shall be in accordance with such assurances of 

confidentiality as the Board determines appropriate. 

Explanation - Nothing in these regulations is intended to limit, or shall be construed to limit, the 

ability of the public prosecutor to share such evidence with potential witnesses or accused in 

connection with any criminal proceedings. 

 

(3) The Original Information and identity provided by an Informant shall be held in confidence 

and exempted from disclosure under clauses (g) and (h) of sub-section (1) of section 8 of the 

Right to Information Act, 2005 (No. 22 of 2005). 

 

(4) Subject to the law of evidence for the time being in force, nothing in these regulations shall 

prejudice the right of the Board to use or to rely on information received otherwise. 

 

(5) No person shall have the right to compel disclosure of the identity, existence of an Informant 

or the information provided by an Informant, except to the extent relied upon in any proceeding 

initiated against such person by the Board. 

Explanation 1. – The confidentiality in respect of the identity and existence of the Informant 

shall be maintained throughout the process of investigation, inquiry and examination as well as 

during any proceedings before the Board and save where the evidence of the Informant is 

required during such proceedings, advance notice of such evidence may be provided to the 

noticee at least seven (7) working days prior to the date of the scheduled hearing for evidence. 

Explanation 2. – In proceedings before any authority other than the Board, the Board may 

request maintenance of confidentiality of the identity and existence of an Informant in such 

proceeding. 

 

 

 



Protection against retaliation and victimisation 

7I. (1) Every person required to have a Code of Conduct under these regulations shall ensure that 

such a Code of Conduct provides for suitable protection against any discharge, termination, 

demotion, suspension, threats, harassment, directly or indirectly or discrimination against any 

employee who files a Voluntary Information Disclosure Form, irrespective of whether the 

information is considered or rejected by the Board or he or she is eligible for a Reward under 

these regulations, by reason of: 

(i) filing a Voluntary Information Disclosure Form under these regulations; 

(ii)  testifying in, participating in, or otherwise assisting or aiding the Board in any 

investigation, inquiry, audit, examination or proceeding instituted or about to be instituted 

for an alleged violation of insider trading laws or in any manner aiding the enforcement 

action taken by the Board; or  

(iii) breaching any confidentiality agreement or provisions of any terms and conditions of 

employment or engagement solely to prevent any employee from cooperating with the 

Board in any manner. 

Explanation 1. - For the purpose of this Chapter, “employee” means any individual who during 

employment may become privy to information relating to violation of insider trading laws and 

files a Voluntary Information Disclosure Form under these regulations and is a director, partner, 

regular or contractual employee, but does not include an advocate.  

Explanation 2. - Nothing in this regulation shall require the employee to establish that,- 

(i) the Board has taken up any enforcement action in furtherance of information provided by 

such person; or 

(ii) the information provided fulfils the criteria of being considered as an Original 

Information under these regulations. 

 

(2) Nothing in these regulations shall prohibit any Informant who believes that he or she has 

been subject to retaliation or victimisation by his or her employer, from approaching the 

competent court or tribunal for appropriate relief. 

 



(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (2), any employer who violates this 

Chapter may be liable for penalty, debarment, suspension, and/or criminal prosecution by the 

Board, as the case may be: 

Provided that nothing in these regulations will require the Board to direct re-instatement or 

compensation by an employer.  

 

(4) Nothing in these regulations shall diminish the rights and privileges of or remedies available 

to any Informant under any other law in force. 

 

Void Agreements 

7J. (1) Any term in an agreement (oral or written) or Code of Conduct, is void in so far as it 

purports to preclude any person, other than an advocate, from submitting to the Board 

information relating to the violation of the securities laws that has occurred, is occurring or has a 

reasonable belief that it would occur. 

 

(2) No person shall by way of any threat or act impede an individual from communicating with 

the Board, including enforcing or threatening to enforce, a confidentiality agreement (other than 

agreements related to legal representations of a client and communications there under) with 

respect to such communications. 

Explanation. - No employer shall require an employee to notify him of any Voluntary 

Information Disclosure Form filed with the Board or to seek its prior permission or consent or 

guidance of any person engaged by the employer before or after such filing.  

 

No Amnesty 

7K. (1) Nothing in these regulations shall be deemed to provide any amnesty or immunity to an 

Informant for violation of securities law. 

 

(2) Where an action against an Informant is deemed appropriate the Board may take into account 

the co-operation rendered in the final determination of any penalty, sanction, direction or 

settlement thereof, as the case may be. 

 



(3) Where an action against an Informant is deemed appropriate, the Board while determining 

the value of monetary sanctions shall not take into account the monetary sanctions that the 

Informant is ordered to pay or that which any other person is ordered to pay if the liability of 

such other person is based substantially on the conduct that the Informant directed, planned, or 

initiated. 

 

(4) An Informant who may be liable for enforcement action by the Board based on his or her 

conduct in connection with securities laws violations reported in the Voluntary Information 

Disclosure Form filed with the Board, may simultaneously or at any time thereafter file an 

application seeking settlement with confidentiality under Chapter IX of the Securities and 

Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018. 

 

(5) Notwithstanding any action taken by the Board against an Informant, the Informant may, 

after payment of any monetary amounts be eligible for a Reward.  

 

Functions of Informant Incentive Committee  

7L. (1) The Informant Incentive Committee shall be assisted by the Office of Informant 

Protection. 

 

(2) The Informant Incentive Committee shall give its recommendations to the Board on the 

following matters,- 

i. Eligibility of Informant for reward; 

ii. Determination under regulations 7E and 7G; and 

iii. Such other issues relating to Informant as the Board may require from time to time. 

  

(3) The Informant Incentive Committee shall conduct its meetings in the manner specified by the 

Board in this regard. 

 

Public dissemination and incentivisation of Informant. 

7M. (1) The Board shall upload on its website the following,- 

i. Annual report of the Office of Informant Protection; 



ii. Press release informing the public that an intimation to the Informant has been issued 

under Regulation 7D; 

iii. Press release informing the public that a Reward has been paid under these 

regulations and the amount of Monetary Sanctions recovered pursuant to the 

information provided by the Informant; 

iv. The Order issuing the Reward; 

Explanation. – Nothing in this regulation shall require the Board to disclose information 

that could identify the Informant or the information provided by the Informant.] 

 

CHAPTER – IV 

 

CODES OF FAIR DISCLOSURE AND CONDUCT 

 

Code of Fair Disclosure.  

8. (1) The board of directors of every company, whose securities are listed on a stock 

exchange, shall formulate and publish on its official website, a code of practices and procedures 

for fair disclosure of unpublished price sensitive information that it would follow in order to 

adhere to each of the principles set out in Schedule A to these regulations, without diluting the 

provisions of these regulations in any manner. 

 

NOTE: This provision intends to require every company whose securities are listed on 

stock exchanges to formulate a stated framework and policy for fair disclosure of events and 

occurrences that could impact price discovery in the market for its securities. Principles such as, 

equality of access to information, publication of policies such as those on dividend, inorganic 

growth pursuits, calls and meetings with analysts, publication of transcripts of such calls and 

meetings, and the like are set out in the schedule. 

 

(2) Every such code of practices and procedures for fair disclosure of unpublished price 

sensitive information and every amendment thereto shall be promptly intimated to the stock 

exchanges where the securities are listed.  

 



NOTE: This provision is aimed at requiring transparent disclosure of the policy 

formulated in sub-regulation (1). 

 

Code of Conduct. 

9. (1) The board of directors of every listed company and 26[the board of directors or 

head(s) of the organisation of every intermediary shall ensure that the chief executive officer or 

managing director] shall formulate a code of conduct 27[with their approval] to regulate, monitor 

and report trading by its 28[designated persons and immediate relatives of designated persons] 

towards achieving compliance with these regulations, adopting the minimum standards set out in 

Schedule B 29[(in case of a listed company) and Schedule C (in case of an intermediary)] to these 

regulations, without diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner. 

 

30[Explanation – For the avoidance of doubt it is clarified that intermediaries, which are listed, 

would be required to formulate a code of conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading by their 

designated persons, by adopting the minimum standards set out in Schedule B with respect to 

trading in their own securities and in Schedule C with respect to trading in other securities.] 

 

NOTE: It is intended that every company whose securities are listed on stock exchanges 

and every 31[intermediary] registered with SEBI is mandatorily required to formulate a code of 

conduct governing trading by 32[designated persons and their immediate relatives].  The 

standards set out in the 33[schedules] are required to be addressed by such code of conduct. 

 

                                                           
26 Substituted for the words “market intermediary” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 

Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
27 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
28 Substituted for the words “employees and other connected persons” by Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
29 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
30 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
31 Substituted for the words “market intermediary” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 

Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
32 Substituted for the words “its employees” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 

Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
33 Substituted for the word “schedule” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 



(2) 34[The board of directors or head(s) of the organisation, of every other person who is 

required to handle unpublished price sensitive information in the course of business operations 

shall formulate a code of conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading by their designated 

persons and immediate relative of designated persons towards achieving compliance with these 

regulations, adopting the minimum standards set out in Schedule C to these regulations, without 

diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner. 

 

Explanation - Professional firms such as auditors, accountancy firms, law firms, analysts, 

insolvency professional entities, consultants, banks etc., assisting or advising listed companies 

shall be collectively referred to as fiduciaries for the purpose of these regulations.]  

 

NOTE: 35[This provision is intended to mandate persons other than listed companies and 

intermediaries that are required to handle unpublished price sensitive information to formulate a 

code of conduct governing trading in securities by their designated persons. These entities 

include professional firms such as auditors, accountancy firms, law firms, analysts, insolvency 

professional entities, consultants, banks etc., assisting or advising listed companies. Even entities 

that normally operate outside the capital market may handle unpublished price sensitive 

information. This provision would mandate all of them to formulate a code of conduct.] 

 

                                                           
34 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019). Prior to substitution Sub-regulation (2) read as under: 

“Every other person who is required to handle unpublished price sensitive information in the course of business 

operations shall formulate a code of conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading by employees and other 

connected persons towards achieving compliance with these regulations, adopting the minimum standards set out in 

Schedule B to these regulations, without diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner.” 
35 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019). Prior to substitution the Note read as under: 

“This provision is intended to mandate persons other than listed companies and market intermediaries that are 

required to handle unpublished price sensitive information to formulate a code of conduct governing trading in 

securities by their employees. These entities include professional firms such as auditors, accountancy firms, law 

firms, analysts, consultants etc., assisting or advising listed companies, market intermediaries and other capital 

market participants. Even entities that normally operate outside the capital market may handle unpublished price 

sensitive information. This provision would mandate all of them to formulate a code of conduct.”   



(3) Every listed company, 36[intermediary] and other persons formulating a code of conduct 

shall identify and designate a compliance officer to administer the code of conduct and other 

requirements under these regulations. 

 

NOTE: This provision is intended to designate a senior officer as the compliance officer with the 

responsibility to administer the code of conduct and monitor compliance with these regulations. 

 

37[(4) For the purpose of sub regulation (1) and (2), the board of directors or such other 

analogous authority shall in consultation with the compliance officer specify the designated 

persons to be covered by the code of conduct on the basis of their role and function in the 

organisation and the access that such role and function would provide to unpublished price 

sensitive information in addition to seniority and professional designation and shall include:- 

 

(i) Employees of such listed company, intermediary or fiduciary designated on the basis 

of their functional role or access to unpublished price sensitive information in the 

organization by their board of directors or analogous body;  

 

(ii) Employees of material subsidiaries of such listed companies designated on the basis 

of their functional role or access to unpublished price sensitive information in the 

organization by their board of directors; 

 

(iii) All promoters of listed companies and promoters who are individuals or investment 

companies for intermediaries or fiduciaries; 

 

(iv) Chief Executive Officer and employees upto two levels below Chief Executive 

Officer of such listed company, intermediary, fiduciary and its material subsidiaries 

irrespective of their functional role in the company or ability to have access to 

unpublished price sensitive information; 

                                                           
36 Substituted for the words “market intermediary” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 

Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
37 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 



 

(v) Any support staff of listed company, intermediary or fiduciary such as IT staff or 

secretarial staff who have access to unpublished price sensitive information.] 

 

38[Institutional Mechanism for Prevention of Insider trading. 

9A.  (1) The Chief Executive Officer, Managing Director or such other analogous person of a 

listed company, intermediary or fiduciary shall put in place adequate and effective system of 

internal controls to ensure compliance with the requirements given in these regulations to 

prevent insider trading.  

 

(2) The internal controls shall include the following:  

(a). all employees who have access to unpublished price sensitive information are 

identified as designated 39[person]; 

 

(b). all the unpublished price sensitive information shall be identified and its 

confidentiality shall be maintained as per the requirements of these regulations; 

 

(c). adequate restrictions shall be placed on communication or procurement of 

unpublished price sensitive information as required by these regulations;  

 

(d). lists of all employees and other persons with whom unpublished price sensitive 

information is shared shall be maintained and confidentiality agreements shall be 

signed or notice shall be served to all such employees and persons;  

 

(e). all other relevant requirements specified under these regulations shall be complied 

with;  

 

(f). periodic process review to evaluate effectiveness of such internal controls.  

                                                           
38 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
39 Substituted for the word “employee” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019) 



 

(3) The board of directors of every listed company and the board of directors or head(s) of the 

organisation of intermediaries and fiduciaries shall ensure that the Chief Executive Officer or the 

Managing Director or such other analogous person ensures compliance with regulation 9 and 

sub-regulations (1) and (2) of this regulation.  

 

(4) The Audit Committee of a listed company or other analogous body for intermediary or 

fiduciary shall review compliance with the provisions of these regulations at least once in a 

financial year and shall verify that the systems for internal control are adequate and are operating 

effectively.  

 

(5) Every listed company shall formulate written policies and procedures for inquiry in case of 

leak of unpublished price sensitive information or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive 

information, which shall be approved by board of directors of the company and accordingly 

initiate appropriate inquiries on becoming aware of leak of unpublished price sensitive 

information or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive information and inform the Board 

promptly of such leaks, inquiries and results of such inquiries.  

 

(6) The listed company shall have a whistle-blower policy and make employees aware of such 

policy to enable employees to report instances of leak of unpublished price sensitive information.  

 

(7) If an inquiry has been initiated by a listed company in case of leak of unpublished price 

sensitive information or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive information, the relevant 

intermediaries and fiduciaries shall co-operate with the listed company in connection with such 

inquiry conducted by listed company.] 

 

 

 

 

 

 



CHAPTER – V 

 

MISCELLANEOUS 

 

Sanction for violations. 

10. Any contravention of these regulations shall be dealt with by the Board in accordance 

with the Act. 

 

Power to remove difficulties. 

40[11. (1) In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the 

provisions of these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue directions through 

guidance notes or circulars:                                               

 Provided that where any direction is issued by the Board in a specific case relating to 

interpretation or application of any provision of these regulations, it shall be done only after 

affording a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the concerned persons and after recording 

reasons for the direction.] 

 

41[(2) For the purpose of Chapter IIIA, the Board may,-  

i. by circular, specify procedures and processes for carrying out the purposes of these 

regulations;  

ii. remove any difficulty in the interpretation or application or implementation of the   

provisions of these regulations, by issuing clarifications and specifying procedures 

through circulars or guidelines.] 

 

Repeal and Savings. 

12. (1) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 

Regulations, 1992 are hereby repealed. 

 

                                                           
40 Renumbered as 11 (1) by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. December 26, 2019) 
41 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. December 26, 2019) 



(2)  Notwithstanding such repeal,— 

 

(a)  the previous operation of the repealed regulations or anything duly done or suffered 

thereunder, any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under the 

repealed regulations, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence 

committed against the repealed regulations, or any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in 

respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment as 

aforesaid, shall remain unaffected as if the repealed regulations had never been repealed; and  

 

(b) anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken including any 

adjudication, enquiry or investigation commenced or show-cause notice issued under the 

repealed regulations prior to such repeal, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the 

corresponding provisions of these regulations; 

 

(3)  After the repeal of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 

Trading) Regulations, 1992, any reference thereto in any other regulations made, guidelines or 

circulars issued thereunder by the Board shall be deemed to be a reference to the corresponding 

provisions of these regulations. 

 

 

 

 

 

 



SCHEDULE A 

 

[See sub-regulation (1) of regulation 8] 

 

Principles of Fair Disclosure for purposes of Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair 

Disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information 

 

1. Prompt public disclosure of unpublished price sensitive information that would impact 

price discovery no sooner than credible and concrete information comes into being in order to 

make such information generally available. 

 

2. Uniform and universal dissemination of unpublished price sensitive unpublished price 

sensitive information to avoid selective disclosure. 

 

3. Designation of a senior officer as a chief investor relations officer to deal with 

dissemination of information and disclosure of unpublished price sensitive information. 

 

4. Prompt dissemination of unpublished price sensitive information that gets disclosed 

selectively, inadvertently or otherwise to make such information generally available.  

 

5. Appropriate and fair response to queries on news reports and requests for verification of 

market rumours by regulatory authorities. 

 

6. Ensuring that information shared with analysts and research personnel is not unpublished 

price sensitive information. 

 

7. Developing best practices to make transcripts or records of proceedings of meetings with 

analysts and other investor relations conferences on the official website to ensure official 

confirmation and documentation of disclosures made. 

 

8. Handling of all unpublished price sensitive information on a need-to-know basis. 



SCHEDULE B 

 

[See sub-regulation (1) 42[***] of regulation 9] 

 

Minimum Standards for Code of Conduct 43[for Listed Companies] to Regulate, 

Monitor and Report Trading by 44[Designated Persons] 

 

1. The compliance officer shall report to the board of directors and in particular, shall 

provide reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, if any, or to the Chairman of the board 

of directors at such frequency as may be stipulated by the board of directors, 45[but not less than 

once in a year]. 

 

2. All information shall be handled within the organisation on a need-to-know basis and no 

unpublished price sensitive information shall be communicated to any person except in 

furtherance of 46[***] legitimate purposes, performance of duties or discharge of 47[***] legal 

obligations. The code of conduct shall contain norms for appropriate Chinese Walls procedures, 

and processes for permitting any designated person to “cross the wall”. 

 

3. 48[Designated Persons and immediate relatives of designated persons] in the organisation 

shall be governed by an internal code of conduct governing dealing in securities.  49[***] 

                                                           
42 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as “and sub-regulation (2)”. 
43 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
44 Substituted for the word “Insiders” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
45 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
46 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as “the insider’s”. 
47 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as “his”. 
48 Substituted for the words “Employees and connected persons designated on the basis of their functional role 

(“designated persons”)” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
49 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as below: 

“The board of directors shall in consultation with the compliance officer specify the designated persons to be 

covered by such code on the basis of their role and function in the organisation. Due regard shall be had to the 



 

50[4. (1) Designated persons may execute trades subject to compliance with these regulations.  

Towards this end, a notional trading window shall be used as an instrument of monitoring trading 

by the designated persons. The trading window shall be closed when the compliance officer 

determines that a designated person or class of designated persons can reasonably be expected to 

have possession of unpublished price sensitive information. Such closure shall be imposed in 

relation to such securities to which such unpublished price sensitive information relates.  

Designated persons and their immediate relatives shall not trade in securities when the trading 

window is closed.  

(2) 51[Trading restriction period 52[shall] be made applicable from the end of every quarter till 48 

hours after the declaration of financial results. The gap between clearance of accounts by audit 

committee and board meeting should be as narrow as possible and preferably on the same day to 

avoid leakage of material information.]  

53[(3) The trading window restrictions mentioned in sub-clause (1) shall not apply in respect of – 

(a) transactions specified in clauses (i) to (iv) and (vi) of the proviso to sub-regulation (1) of  

regulation 4 and in respect of a pledge of shares for a bonafide purpose such as raising of funds, 

subject to pre-clearance by the compliance officer and compliance with the respective 

regulations made by the Board;  

(b) transactions which are undertaken in accordance with respective regulations made by the 

Board such as acquisition by conversion of warrants or debentures, subscribing to rights issue, 

further public issue, preferential allotment or tendering of shares in a buy-back offer, open offer, 

delisting offer.]  

 

                                                                                                                                                                                           
access that such role and function would provide to unpublished price sensitive information in addition to seniority 

and professional designation.” 
50 First paragraph numbered as sub-clause (1) and second and third paragraph combined and numbered as sub-clause 
(2) by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 

2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019) 
51 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
52 Substituted for the word “can” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019) 
53 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019) 



5. The timing for re-opening of the trading window shall be determined by the compliance 

officer taking into account various factors including the unpublished price sensitive information 

in question becoming generally available and being capable of assimilation by the market, which 

in any event shall not be earlier than forty-eight hours after the information becomes generally 

available. 54[***] 

 

6.  When the trading window is open, trading by designated persons shall be subject to pre-

clearance by the compliance officer, if the value of the proposed trades is above such thresholds 

as the board of directors may stipulate.  55[***]   

 

7. 56[***] 

 

8. Prior to approving any trades, the compliance officer shall be entitled to seek declarations 

to the effect that the applicant for pre-clearance is not in possession of any unpublished price 

sensitive information. He shall also have regard to whether any such declaration is reasonably 

capable of being rendered inaccurate. 

 

9. The code of conduct shall specify any reasonable timeframe, which in any event shall not 

be more than seven trading days, within which trades that have been pre-cleared have to be 

executed by the designated person, failing which fresh pre-clearance would be needed for the 

trades to be executed. 

 

                                                           
54 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as below: 

“The trading window shall also be applicable to any person having contractual or fiduciary relation with the 

company, such as auditors, accountancy firms, law firms, analysts, consultants etc., assisting or advising the 

company.” 
55 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as below: 

“No designated person shall apply for pre-clearance of any proposed trade if such designated person is in possession 

of unpublished price sensitive information even if the trading window is not closed.” 
56 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as below: 

“The compliance officer shall confidentially maintain a list of such securities as a “restricted list” which shall be 

used as the basis for approving or rejecting applications for preclearance of trades.” 



10. The code of conduct shall specify the period, which in any event shall not be less than six 

months, within which a designated person who is permitted to trade shall not execute a contra 

trade.  The compliance officer may be empowered to grant relaxation from strict application of 

such restriction for reasons to be recorded in writing provided that such relaxation does not 

violate these regulations. Should a contra trade be executed, inadvertently or otherwise, in 

violation of such a restriction, the profits from such trade shall be liable to be disgorged for 

remittance to the Board for credit to the Investor Protection and Education Fund administered by 

the Board under the Act. 

 

57[Provided that this shall not be applicable for trades pursuant to exercise of stock options.] 

 

11. The code of conduct shall stipulate such formats as the board of directors deems 

necessary for making applications for pre-clearance, reporting of trades executed, reporting of 

decisions not to trade after securing pre-clearance 58[***] and for reporting level of holdings in 

securities at such intervals as may be determined as being necessary to monitor compliance with 

these regulations.  

 

12.  Without prejudice to the power of the Board under the Act, the code of conduct shall 

stipulate the sanctions and disciplinary actions, including wage freeze, suspension, 59[recovery, 

clawback] etc., that may be imposed, by the 60[listed company] required to formulate a code of 

conduct under sub-regulation (1) 61[***]of regulation 9, for the contravention of the code of 

conduct. 

 

                                                           
57 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
58 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as “recording of reasons for such decisions”. 
59 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
60 Substituted for the word “persons” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
61 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as “and sub-regulation (2)” 



13. The code of conduct shall specify that in case it is observed by the 62[listed company] 

required to formulate a code of conduct under sub-regulation (1) 63[***]of regulation 9, that 

there has been a violation of these regulations, 64[it] shall inform the Board promptly.  

 

65[14.  Designated persons shall be required to disclose names and Permanent Account Number 

or any other identifier authorized by law of the following persons to the company on an annual 

basis and as and when the information changes: 

 

a) immediate relatives 

b) persons with whom such designated person(s) shares a material financial 

relationship 

c) Phone, mobile and cell numbers which are used by them 

 

In addition, the names of educational institutions from which designated persons have graduated 

and names of their past employers shall also be disclosed on a one time basis. 

 

Explanation – The term “material financial relationship” shall mean a relationship in which one 

person is a recipient of any kind of payment such as by way of a loan or gift 66[from a designated 

person] during the immediately preceding twelve months, equivalent to at least 25% 67[of the 

annual income of such designated person] but shall exclude relationships in which the payment is 

based on arm’s length transactions.] 

 

                                                           
62 Substituted for the word “persons” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
63 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as “and sub-regulation (2)” 
64 Substituted for the word “they” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
65 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
66 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019) 
67 Substituted for the words “of such payer’s annual income” by Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019) 



68[15. Listed entities shall have a process for how and when people are brought ‘inside’ on 

sensitive transactions. Individuals should be made aware of the duties and responsibilities 

attached to the receipt of Inside Information, and the liability that attaches to misuse or 

unwarranted use of such information.] 

 

 

                                                           
68 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 



69[SCHEDULE C 

[See sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 9] 

 

Minimum Standards for Code of Conduct for Intermediaries and Fiduciaries to Regulate, 

Monitor and Report Trading by Designated Persons 

 

1. The compliance officer shall report to the board of directors or head(s) of the organisation (or 

committee constituted in this regard) and in particular, shall provide reports to the Chairman of 

the Audit Committee or other analogous body, if any, or to the Chairman of the board of 

directors or head(s) of the organisation at such frequency as may be stipulated by the board of 

directors or head(s) of the organization but not less than once in a year. 

 

2. All information shall be handled within the organisation on a need-to-know basis and no 

unpublished price sensitive information shall be communicated to any person except in 

furtherance of legitimate purposes, performance of duties or discharge of legal obligations. The 

code of conduct shall contain norms for appropriate Chinese Wall procedures, and processes for 

permitting any designated person to “cross the wall”.  

 

3. Designated persons and immediate relatives of designated persons in the organisation shall be 

governed by an internal code of conduct governing dealing in securities. 

 

4. Designated persons may execute trades subject to compliance with these regulations. Trading 

by designated persons shall be subject to pre- clearance by the compliance officer(s), if the value 

of the proposed trades is above such thresholds as the board of directors or head(s) of the 

organisation may stipulate. 

 

5. The compliance officer shall confidentially maintain a list of such securities as a “restricted 

list” which shall be used as the basis for approving or rejecting applications for pre-clearance of 

trades. 

                                                           
69 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 



 

6. Prior to approving any trades, the compliance officer shall seek declarations to the effect that 

the applicant for pre-clearance is not in possession of any unpublished price sensitive 

information. He shall also have regard to whether any such declaration is reasonably capable of 

being rendered inaccurate. 

 

7. The code of conduct shall specify any reasonable timeframe, which in any event shall not be 

more than seven trading days, within which trades that have been pre-cleared have to be 

executed by the designated person, failing which fresh pre-clearance would be needed for the 

trades to be executed. 

 

8. The code of conduct shall specify the period, which in any event shall not be less than six 

months, within which a designated person who is a connected person of the listed company and 

is permitted to trade in the securities of such listed company, shall not execute a contra trade. 

The compliance officer may be empowered to grant relaxation from strict application of such 

restriction for reasons to be recorded in writing provided that such relaxation does not violate 

these regulations. Should a contra trade be executed, inadvertently or otherwise, in violation of 

such a restriction, the profits from such trade shall be liable to be disgorged for remittance to the 

Board for credit to the Investor Protection and Education Fund administered by the Board under 

the Act. 

Provided that this shall not be applicable for trades pursuant to exercise of stock options. 

 

9. The code of conduct shall stipulate such formats as the board of directors or head(s) of the 

organisation (or committee constituted in this regard) deems necessary for making applications 

for pre-clearance, reporting of trades executed, reporting of decisions not to trade after securing 

pre-clearance, and for reporting level of holdings in securities at such intervals as may be 

determined as being necessary to monitor compliance with these regulations. 

 

10. Without prejudice to the power of the Board under the Act, the code of conduct shall 

stipulate the sanctions and disciplinary actions, including wage freeze, suspension, recovery, 

clawback etc., that may be imposed, by the intermediary or fiduciary required to formulate a 



code of conduct under sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 9, for the 

contravention of the code of conduct. 

 

11. The code of conduct shall specify that in case it is observed by the intermediary or fiduciary 

required to formulate a code of conduct under sub-regulation (1) or sub-regulation (2) of 

regulation 9, respectively, that there has been a violation of these regulations, such intermediary 

or fiduciary shall inform the Board promptly. 

 

12. All designated persons shall be required to disclose name and Permanent Account Number or 

any other identifier authorized by law of the following to the intermediary or fiduciary on an 

annual basis and as and when the information changes: 

a) immediate relatives 

b) persons with whom such designated person(s) shares a material financial relationship 

c) Phone,  mobile, and cell numbers which are used by them 

In addition, names of 70[educational] institutions from which designated persons have 

71[graduated] and names of their past employers shall also be disclosed on a one time basis. 

Explanation – the term “material financial relationship” shall mean a relationship in which one 

person is a recipient of any kind of payment such as by way of a loan or gift 72[from a designated 

person] during the immediately preceding twelve months, equivalent to at least 25% 73[of the 

annual income of such designated person] but shall exclude relationships in which the payment is 

based on arm’s length transactions. 

 

13. Intermediaries and fiduciaries shall have a process for how and when people are brought 

‘inside’ on sensitive transactions. Individuals should be made aware of the duties and 

responsibilities attached to the receipt of Inside Information, and the liability that attaches to 

misuse or unwarranted use of such information.] 

                                                           
70 Substituted for the word “educations” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019) 
71 Substituted for the word “studied” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019) 
72 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019) 
73 Substituted for the words “of such payer’s annual income” by Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019) 



74[SCHEDULE D 

[See regulation 7B] 

Form for Informant’s Voluntary Information Disclosure to be submitted to the Board.  

Note: For submission of information through a legal representative, the redacted copy of 

the Form expunging information that may identify the Informant shall be submitted by 

the legal representative without expunging any information relating to the legal 

representative and the details relating to the violation of securities laws. 

 

*Indicates that the required field is non-mandatorily, remaining fields are mandatory 

I. PERSONAL INFORMATION OF THE INFORMANT 

A.INDIVIDUAL 1: 

Last 

Name:………………… 

 

First 

Name:………………… 

 

Title:……………… 

Address: City / State: PIN: 

Telephone (with State 

Code): 

Mobile: E-Mail address: 

 

Employment Details*: 

 

Permanent Account Number, if 

available: 

II. LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE (where applicable) 

Last 

Name:……………… 

First 

Name:…………………… 

Title:……………… 

Firm Name (if not self-employed): 

 

Contact address : City / State: PIN: 

Residence address:  City / State: PIN: 

Telephone (with State 

Code): 

Mobile: E-Mail address: 

                                                           
74 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. December 26, 2019) 



Bar Council Enrolment 

Number: 

  

III SUBMISSION OF ORIGINAL INFORMATION 

1. Is it a violation of securities laws? Yes / No 

2. If yes to question (1), please describe the type of violation: 

3. Has the violation: Occurred / Occurring / Potential to occur in future 

4. If the violation has occurred, date of occurrence: dd/mm/yy 

(in case exact date is not known, an approximate period may be entered) 

5. Have the individual(s) or their representatives had any prior 

communication(s) or representations with the Board concerning this matter? 

Yes (Details thereof) /  No  

6. Does this violation relate to an entity of which the individual is or was an 

officer, director, counsel, employee, consultant or contractor? Yes (Details 

thereof)  /  No 

7. If yes to question (6), was the original information submitted first to your 

Head or internal legal and compliance office? Yes / No 

8. If yes question (7), then please provide,  

Date of submission of original information: dd/mm/yy 

9. Please describe in detail why you think the information submitted is a 

violation? 

10. What facts or supporting material is your allegation based on?  

Please attach any additional documents to this form, if necessary. 

11. Identify any documents or other information in your submission that you 

believe could reasonably be expected to reveal your identity and explain the 

basis for your belief that your identity would be revealed if the documents 

were disclosed to a third party. 

 

12. Provide details of connection amongst the Informant, the company whose 

securities are involved and the person against whom information is being 



provided: 

 

IV. DECLARATION 

I/we hereby declare that,- 

A. I/we have read and understood the Securities and Exchange Board of 

India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; 

 

B. I/we accept that mere furnishing of information by me/us does not 

by itself confer on me/us right to get reward and that I/we may not 

get any Reward at all. I/we would be bound by the decisions that the 

authority competent to grant reward may take; 

 

C. I/we accept that the Securities and Exchange Board of India is under 

no obligation to enter into any correspondence regarding action or 

inaction taken as a result of my/our information.  

 

D. I/we accept that the reward would be an ex-gratia payment which, 

subject to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 

Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, shall be granted at the absolute 

discretion of the competent authority. The decision of the authority 

shall be acceptable to me/us and I/we shall not challenge it in any 

litigation, appeal, adjudication, etc. 

 

E. In the event of my/our death before the reward us paid to me/us, it 

may be paid to …………. (Details of nominee) 

 

F. I/we declare that the information contained herein is true, correct 

and complete to the best of my/our knowledge and belief and not 

obtained from the categories of persons indicated in sub-regulation 

(2) and sub-regulation (6) of regulation 7G of the Securities and 

Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 

Regulations, 2015 and agree to indemnify the Board in case it is not 



so found. I/we fully understand that I/we may be subject to action 

under securities laws as well as Section 182 of the Indian Penal 

Code, 1860 (45 of 1860) and ineligible for Reward if, in my/our 

submission of information or in any other dealings with the Board, 

I/we knowingly and wilfully make any false, fictitious, or fraudulent 

statements or representations, or use any false writing or document 

knowing that the writing or document contains any false, fictitious, 

or fraudulent statement. 

 

Signature:…………………………….                                  Date: dd/mm/yy 

Place: 

V. CERTIFICATE BY LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE (where the 

information is submitted through legal representative) 

I hereby certify as follows,- 

(a) I have reviewed the completed and signed Voluntary 

Information Disclosure Form for completeness and accuracy 

and the information contained therein is true, correct and 

complete to the best of my knowledge; 

 

(b) I have irrevocable consent from the Declarant, to provide to 

the Securities and Exchange Board of India, the original 

Voluntary Information Disclosure Form in the event of a 

request for it from the Securities and Exchange Board of 

India due to concerns that the Informant has not complied 

with these regulations or where the Securities and Exchange 

Board of India requires the said information for the purpose 

of verification for declaring any gratuitous reward to the 

Informant or where the Securities and Exchange Board of 

India determines that it is necessary to seek such information 

to accomplish the purpose of the Securities and Exchange 

Board of India Act including for the protection of investors, 



sharing with foreign securities regulators and foreign and 

Indian law enforcement agencies, etc.;  

 

(c) I am and shall continue to be legally obligated to provide the 

original Voluntary Information Disclosure Form without 

demur within seven (7) calendar days of receiving such 

request from the Securities and Exchange Board of India.  

 

Signature:…………………………….                                  Date: dd/mm/yy 

Place: 

 

 ]  

 
75[SCHEDULE E 

 [See regulations 7D and 7E] 

Form for Informant’s Reward Claim to be submitted to the Board within the time 

specified in the intimation of prima facie eligibility to receive an Informant Reward. 

All fields are mandatory 

 

I. PERSONAL INFORMATION 

A. Informant:  

Last name:--------------------- 

 

First Name:------------------------ 

 

Title:----------------- 

 

Address: City / State: PIN: 

Telephone (with State code): Mobile: E-Mail Address: 

Employment Details: Permanent Account Number: 

 

II ORIGINAL INFORMATION SUBMITTED 

                                                           
75 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. December 26, 2019) 



Online Acknowledgment Receipt Number: 

(Annex Original Form for Voluntary Information Disclosure, if not yet submitted to 

Securities and Exchange Board of India) 

 

Subject matter of submission: 

 

Date of submission: dd/mm/20 

 

Case Name: 

 

SEBI Order No.: 

 

Date: dd/mm/20 

III CONSIDERATION FOR REWARD 

Provide any material information that may be relevant in light of the criteria for 

determining the amount of Reward or denial thereof. Include any supporting documents 

if necessary.  

 

IV DECLARATION BY INFORMANT 

I/we hereby declare that,- 

A. I/we have read and understood the Securities and Exchange Board of 

India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; 

 

B. I/we accept that mere furnishing of information by me/us does not by 

itself confer on me/us right to get reward and that I/we may not get any 

Reward at all. I/we would be bound by the decisions that the authority 

competent to grant reward may take; 

 

C. I/we accept that the Securities and Exchange Board of India is under no 

obligation to pay any reward or enter into any correspondence regarding 

action or inaction taken as a result of this communication.  

 

D. I/we accept that the reward would be an ex-gratia payment which, 

subject to the Securities and Exchange Board of India Prohibition of 

Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, shall be granted at the absolute 

discretion of the competent authority. The decision of the authority shall 

be acceptable to me/us and I/we shall not challenge it in any litigation, 



appeal, adjudication, etc. 

 

E. In the event of my/our death before the reward is paid to me/us, it may 

be paid to …………. (Details of nominee) 

 

F. I/we declare that the information contained herein is true, correct and 

complete to the best of my/our knowledge and belief and not obtained 

from the categories of persons indicated in sub-regulation (2) and sub-

regulation (6) of regulation 7G of the Securities and Exchange Board of 

India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 and agree to 

indemnify the Board in case it is not so found. I/we fully understand that 

I/we may be subject to action under securities laws as well as Section 

182 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (45 of 1860) and ineligible for an 

Informant Reward if, in my/our submission of information or in any 

other dealings with the Board, I/we knowingly and wilfully make any 

false, fictitious, or fraudulent statements or representations, or use any 

false writing or document knowing that the writing or document 

contains any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement. 

 

Signature:…………………………….                                  Date: dd/mm/yy 

Place: 

 

 

V CERTIFICATE BY LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE (where applicable) 

I hereby certify as follows,- 

(a) I have reviewed the completed and signed claim form for 

completeness and accuracy and the information contained 

therein is true, correct and complete to the best of my 

knowledge; and 

 

(b) The declarant is the person who signed the original Voluntary 



Information Disclosure Form.  

 

Signature:…………………………….                                  Date: dd/mm/yy 

Place: 

] 

  

U. K. SINHA 

CHAIRMAN 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 


