




















































1 

 

GAZETTE OF INDIA 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART – III – SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

NEW DELHI, OCTOBER 28, 2014 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the 28th October, 2014 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (SHARE BASED EMPLOYEE 

BENEFITS) REGULATIONS, 2014 

 

No. LAD-NRO/GN/2014-15/16/1729. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 11, 

section 11A , section 30 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with 

section 62 of Companies Act, 2013 and rule 12 of Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) 

Rules, 2014, the Securities and Exchange Board of India hereby makes the following regulations 

to provide for regulation of all schemes by companies for the benefit of their employees involving 

dealing in shares, directly or indirectly, with a view to facilitate smooth operation of such 

schemes while preventing any possible manipulation and matters connected therewith or 

incidental thereto.   

 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

 

Short title, commencement and application. 

1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based 

Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014. 



2 

 

 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 

 

(3) The provisions of these regulations shall apply to following, -  

 

(i) employee stock option schemes; 

(ii) employee stock purchase schemes; 

(iii)stock appreciation rights schemes; 

(iv) general employee benefits schemes; and 

(v) retirement benefit schemes. 

 

(4) The provisions of these regulations shall apply to any company whose shares are listed on a 

recognised stock exchange in India, and has a scheme: 

(i) for direct or indirect benefit of employees; and  

(ii) involving dealing in or subscribing to or purchasing securities of the company, 

directly or indirectly; and 

(iii)satisfying, directly or indirectly, any one of the following conditions:  

a. the scheme is set up by the company or any other company in its group;  

b. the scheme is funded or guaranteed by the company or any other company in its group;  

c. the scheme is controlled or managed by the company or any other company in its group.  

(5) Nothing in these regulations shall apply to shares issued to employees in compliance with the 

provisions pertaining to preferential allotment as specified in the Securities and Exchange Board 

of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009.  

(6) The provisions pertaining to preferential allotment as specified in the Securities and 

Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 shall 

not be applicable in case of a company issuing new shares in pursuance and compliance of these 

regulations.  

 

Definitions. 

2.(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words, expressions 

and derivations therefrom shall have the meanings assigned to them as under- 



3 

 

a. “appreciation” means the difference between the market price of the share of a company 

on the date of exercise of stock appreciation right (SAR) or vesting of SAR, as the case 

may be, and the SAR price; 

 

b. “associate company” shall have the same meaning as defined under section 2(6) of the 

Companies Act, 2013; 

 

c. “Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India or SEBI;  

 

d. "control" shall have the same meaning as defined under the Securities and Exchange 

Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; 

 

e. “emergency” means the need of funds by the trust to meet the commitment arising out of 

the objective of the scheme;  

 

f. “employee” means, — 

1[(i) a permanent employee of the company who has been working in India or outside 

India; or 

 (ii) a director of the company, whether a whole time director or not but excluding an 

independent director; or 

 (iii) an employee as defined in clause (i) or (ii) of a subsidiary, in India or outside India, 

or of a holding company of the company  

 
1 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share based Employee Benefits) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2015 (w.e.f. 18.09.2015). Prior to its substitution, clause (f) read as under: 

“(i) a permanent employee of the company who has been working in India or outside India; or 

 

(ii) a director of the company, whether a whole time director or not but excluding an independent 

director; or 

 

(iii) an employee as defined in clauses (a) or (b) of a subsidiary, in India or outside India, or of a holding 

company of the company or of an associate company but does not include— 

  (a) an employee who is a promoter or a person belonging to the promoter group;   
  or 

(b) a director who either himself or through his relative or through any body corporate, directly or 

indirectly, holds more than ten percent of the outstanding equity shares of the company;” 

 

 

 



4 

 

but does not include— 

(a) an employee who is a promoter or a person belonging to the promoter group; or 

(b) a director who either himself or through his relative or through any body corporate, 

directly or indirectly, holds more than ten per cent of the outstanding equity shares 

of the company; ] 

 

g. “employee stock option scheme or ESOS” means a scheme under which a company 

grants employee stock option directly or through a trust; 

 

h. “employee stock purchase scheme or ESPS” means a scheme under which a  company 

offers shares to employees, as part of public issue or otherwise, or through a trust where 

the trust may undertake secondary acquisition for the purposes of the scheme; 

 

i. “exercise” means making of an application by an employee to the company or to the trust 

for issue of shares or appreciation in form of cash, as the case may be, against vested 

options or vested SARs  in pursuance of the schemes covered under Part A or Part C of 

Chapter III of these regulations, as applicable;  

 

j. “exercise period” means the time period after vesting within which an employee should 

exercise his right to apply for shares against the vested option or appreciation against 

vested SAR  in pursuance of the schemes covered under Part A or Part C of Chapter III 

of these regulations, as applicable; 

 

k. “exercise price” means the price, if any, payable by the employee for exercising the 

option or SAR  granted to him in pursuance of the schemes covered under Part A or 

Part C of Chapter III of these regulations, as the case may be; 

 

l. “general employee benefits scheme or GEBS” means any scheme of a company framed 

in accordance with these regulations, dealing in shares of the company or the shares of 

its listed holding company, for the purpose of employee welfare including healthcare 

benefits, hospital care or benefits, or benefits in the event of sickness, accident, 



5 

 

disability, death or scholarship funds, or such other benefit as specified by such 

company; 

 

m. “grant” means the process by which the company issues options, SARs, shares, or any 

other benefits under any of the schemes; 

 

n. “grant date” means the date on which the compensation committee approves the grant;  

 

o. “group” means two or more companies which, directly or indirectly, are in a position 

to, —  

(i) exercise twenty-six per cent. or more of the voting rights in the other company; or  

(ii) appoint more than fifty per cent. of the members of the board of directors in the 

other company; or  

(iii) control the management or affairs of the other company; 

 

p. “independent director” shall have the same meaning assigned to it in Clause 49 of the 

equity Listing Agreement as prescribed by the Board;   

 

q. “key managerial personnel” shall have the same meaning as defined under section 

2(51) of the Companies Act, 2013; 

 

r. “market price” means the latest available closing price on a recognised stock exchange on 

which the shares of the company are listed on the date immediately prior to the relevant 

date.  

Explanation.- If such shares are listed on more than one stock exchange, then the 

closing price on the stock exchange having higher trading volume shall be considered 

as the market price;  

 

s. “option” means the option given to an employee which gives him a right to purchase or 

subscribe at a future date, the shares offered by the company, directly or indirectly, at a 

pre-determined price; 



6 

 

 

t. “option grantee” means an employee having a right but not an obligation to exercise an 

option in pursuance of ESOS; 

 

u. “promoter” shall have the same meaning assigned to it under the Securities and 

Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 

2009;  

 

v. “promoter group” shall have the same meaning assigned to it under the Securities and 

Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 

2009:  

 Provided where the promoter or promoter group of a company is a body corporate, the 

promoters of that body corporate shall also be deemed to be promoters of such 

company; 

 

w. “relative” shall have the same meaning as defined under section 2(77) of the 

Companies Act, 2013; 

 

x. “relevant date” means,- 

 

(i). in the case of grant, the date of the meeting of the compensation committee on 

 which the grant is made; or 

(ii). in the case of exercise, the date on which the notice of exercise is given to the 

 company or to the trust by the employee; 

 

y. “retirement benefit scheme or RBS” means a scheme of a company, framed in 

accordance with these regulations, dealing in shares of the company or  the shares of its 

listed holding company, for providing retirement benefits to the employees subject to 

compliance with existing rules and regulations as applicable under laws relevant to 

retirement benefits in India;  

 



7 

 

z. "SAR grantee” means an employee to whom SAR is granted; 

 

za. “SAR price” means the base price defined on the grant date of SAR for the purpose of 

computing appreciation; 

 

zb. “scheme” means a scheme of a company proposing to provide share based benefits to 

its employees, which may be implemented and administered directly by such company 

or through a trust, in accordance with these regulations; 

 

zc. “secondary acquisition” means acquisition of existing shares of the company by the 

trust on the platform of a recognised stock exchange for cash consideration; 

 

zd. “share” means equity shares and securities convertible into equity shares and shall 

include American Depository Receipts (ADRs), Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) or 

other depository receipts representing underlying equity shares or securities convertible 

into equity shares;  

 

ze. “stock appreciation right or SAR” means a right given to a SAR grantee entitling him to 

receive appreciation for a specified number of shares of the company where the 

settlement of such appreciation may be made by way of cash payment or shares of the 

company.  

 Explanation.- An SAR settled by way of shares of the company shall be referred to as 

equity settled SAR; 

 

zf. “stock appreciation right scheme or SAR scheme” means a scheme under which a 

company grants SAR to employees; 

 

zg. “trust” means a trust established under the provisions of Indian Trusts Act, 1882 

including any statutory modification or re-enactment thereof, for implementing any of 

the schemes covered by these regulations; 

 



8 

 

zh. “trustee” means the trustee of the trust; 

 

zi. “vesting” means the process by which the employee becomes entitled to receive the 

benefit of a grant made to him under any of the schemes;  

 

zj. “vesting period” means the period during which the vesting of option, SAR or a benefit 

granted under any of the schemes takes place; 

 

 (2) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the Securities 

and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 

1956 (42 of 1956) or the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) and any statutory modification or re-

enactment thereto, shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in those legislation. 

CHAPTER II 

 

SCHEMES - IMPLEMENTATION AND PROCESS 

 

 

Implementation of schemes through trust.  

 

3. (1) A company may implement schemes either directly or by setting up an irrevocable trust(s): 

 

Provided that if the scheme is to be implemented through a trust the same has to be decided 

upfront at the time of taking approval of the shareholders for setting up the schemes:  

 

Provided further that if the scheme involves secondary acquisition or gift or both, then it is 

mandatory for the company to implement such scheme(s) through a trust(s).   

 

(2) A company may implement several schemes as permitted under these regulations through a 

single trust: 

 



9 

 

Provided that such single trust shall keep and maintain proper books of account, records and 

documents, for each such scheme so as to explain its transactions and to disclose at any point of 

time the financial position of each scheme and in particular give a true and fair view of the state 

of affairs of each scheme.  

 

(3) SEBI may specify the minimum provisions to be included in the trust deed under which the 

trust is formed, and such trust deed and any modifications thereto shall be mandatorily filed with 

the stock exchange in India where the shares of the company are listed. 

 

(4) A person shall not be appointed as a trustee, if he- 

 

i. is a director, key managerial personnel or promoter of the company or its holding, 

subsidiary or associate company or any relative of such director, key managerial 

personnel or promoter; or 

 

ii. beneficially holds ten percent or more of the paid-up share capital of the company. 

 

Provided where individuals or ‘one person companies’ as defined under the Companies Act, 

2013 are appointed as trustees, there shall be a minimum of two such trustees, and in case a 

corporate entity is appointed as a trustee, then it may be the sole trustee.    

 

(5) The trustees of a trust, which is governed under these regulations, shall not vote in respect of 

the shares held by such trust, so as to avoid any misuse arising out of exercising such voting 

rights.  

 

(6) The trustee should ensure that appropriate approval from the shareholders has been obtained 

by the company in order to enable the trust to implement the scheme(s) and undertake secondary 

acquisition for the purposes of the scheme(s).  

 

(7) The trust shall not deal in derivatives, and shall undertake only delivery based transactions 

for the purposes of secondary acquisition as permitted by these regulations.  



10 

 

 

(8) Subject to the requirements of Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies (Share Capital and 

Debenture) Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, as may be applicable, the company may 

lend monies to the trust on appropriate terms and conditions to acquire the shares either through 

new issue or secondary acquisition, for the purposes of implementation of the scheme(s).  

 

(9) For the purposes of disclosures to the stock exchange, the shareholding of the trust shall be 

shown as ‘non-promoter and non-public’ shareholding.  

 

Explanation: For the removal of doubts, it is clarified that shares held by the trust shall not form 

part of the public shareholding which needs to be maintained at a minimum of twenty five per 

cent as prescribed under Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957. 

 

(10) Secondary acquisition in a financial year by the trust shall not exceed two per cent of the 

paid up equity capital as at the end of the previous financial year.  

 

(11) The total number of shares under secondary acquisition held by the trust shall at no time 

exceed the below mentioned prescribed limits as a percentage of the paid up equity capital as at 

the end of the financial year immediately prior to the year in which the shareholder approval is 

obtained for such secondary acquisition: 

 

Sr. No. Particulars Limit 

A 

for the schemes enumerated in Part A, 

Part B or Part C of Chapter III of these 

regulations 

5% 

B 

for the schemes enumerated in Part D, 

or Part E of Chapter III of these 

regulations 

2% 

C for all the schemes in aggregate  5% 

 



11 

 

Explanation 1.- The above limits shall automatically include within their ambit the 

expanded capital of the company where such expansion has taken place on account of 

corporate action including issue of bonus shares, split or rights issue. 

 

Explanation 2.- If a company has multiple trusts and schemes, the aforesaid ceiling limit 

shall be applicable for all such trusts and schemes taken together at the company level and 

not at the level of individual trust or scheme.  

 

Explanation 3.- The above ceiling limit will not be applicable where shares are allotted to 

the trust by way of new issue or gift from promoter or promoter group or other 

shareholders.  

 

Explanation 4.- In the event that the options, shares or SAR  granted under any of the 

schemes exceeds the number of shares that the trust may acquire through secondary 

acquisition, then such shortfall of shares shall be made up by the company through new 

issue of shares to the trust in accordance with the provisions of new issue of shares under 

the applicable laws.  

 (12) The un-appropriated inventory of shares which are not backed by grants, acquired through 

secondary acquisition by the trust under Part A, Part B or Part C of Chapter III of these 

regulations, shall be appropriated within a reasonable period which shall not extend beyond the 

end of the subsequent financial year:    

 

Provided that if such trust(s) existing as on the date of notification of these regulations are not 

able to appropriate the un-appropriated inventory within one year of such notification, the same 

shall be disclosed to the stock exchange(s) at the end of such period and then the same shall be 

sold on the recognized stock exchange(s) where shares of the company are listed, within a period 

of five years from the date of notification of these regulations.     

 

(13)  The trust shall be required to hold the shares acquired through secondary acquisition for a 

minimum period of six months except where they are required to be transferred in the 



12 

 

circumstances enumerated in clause (b) of sub-regulation (14) of this regulation2[, whether off-

market or on the platform of stock exchange.] 

 

(14) The trust shall be permitted to undertake off-market transfer of shares only under the 

following circumstances:  

(a). transfer to the employees pursuant to scheme(s); 

(b). when participating in open offer under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, or when 

participating in buy-back, delisting or any other exit offered by the company generally 

to its shareholders.      

 

(15) The trust shall not become a mechanism for trading in shares and hence shall not sell the 

shares in secondary market except under the following circumstances: 

(a). cashless exercise of options under the scheme covered by Part A of Chapter III of 

these regulations; 

 

(b). on vesting or exercise, as the case may be, of SAR under the scheme covered by Part 

C of Chapter III of these regulations;  

 

(c). in case of emergency for implementing the schemes covered under Part D and Part E 

of Chapter III of these regulations, and for this purpose - 

 

(i). the trustee shall record the reasons for such sale; and   

 

(ii). money so realised on sale of shares shall be utilised within a definite time 

period as stipulated under the scheme or trust deed. 

 

(d). participation in buy-back or open offers or delisting offers or any other exit offered by 

the company generally to its shareholders, if required; 

 
2 Sub. by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share based Employee Benefits) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015 

for “.”( w.e.f  18.09.2015) 



13 

 

  

(e). for repaying the loan, if the un-appropriated inventory of shares held by the trust is 

not appropriated within the timeline as provided under sub-regulation (12) of this 

regulation; 

 

(f). winding up of the scheme(s); and 

 

(g). based on approval granted by SEBI to an applicant, for the reasons recorded in 

writing in respect of the schemes covered by Part A or Part B or Part C of Chapter III 

of these regulations, upon payment of a non-refundable fee of rupees one lakh along 

with the application 3[by way of direct credit in the bank account through 

NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or] by way of a banker’s 

cheque or demand draft payable at Mumbai in favour of the Board.  

(16) The trust shall be required to make disclosures and comply with the other requirements 

applicable to insiders or promoters under the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 

1992 or any modification or re-enactment thereto.  

 

 

Eligibility.  

 

4. An employee shall be eligible to participate in the schemes of the company as determined by 

the compensation committee. 

 

Explanation.- Where such employee is a director nominated by an institution as its representative 

on the board of directors of the company – 

(i)  The contract or agreement entered into between the institution nominating its employee 

as the director of a company, and the director so appointed shall, inter alia, specify the 

following: 

 
3 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2017 (w.e.f. 6-3-2017).  



14 

 

a.     whether the grants by the company under its scheme(s) can be accepted by the 

said employee in his capacity as director of the company; 

b. that grant if made to the director, shall not be renounced in favour of the 

nominating institution; and 

c. the conditions subject to which fees, commissions, other incentives, etc. can be 

accepted by the director from the company. 

(ii) the institution nominating its employee as a director of a company shall file a copy of 

the contract or agreement with the said company, which shall, in turn file the copy with 

all the stock exchanges on which its shares are listed.  

(iii) the director so appointed shall furnish a copy of the contract or agreement at the first 

board meeting of the company attended by him after his nomination. 

 

 

Compensation committee. 

5. (1) A company shall constitute a compensation committee for administration and 

superintendence of the schemes:  

Provided that the company may designate such of its other committees as compensation 

committee if they fulfil the criteria as provided in sub-regulation (2) of this regulation:   

 

Provided further that where the scheme is being implemented through a trust the 

compensation committee shall delegate the administration of such scheme(s) to the trust. 

(2) The compensation committee shall be a committee of such members of the board of directors 

of the company as provided under section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013, as amended or 

modified from time to time.  

 

(3) The compensation committee shall, inter alia, formulate the detailed terms and conditions of 

the schemes which shall include the provisions as specified by Board in this regard.  

 

(4) The compensation committee shall frame suitable policies and procedures to ensure that there 

is no violation of securities laws, as amended from time to time, including Securities and 

Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 and Securities and 



15 

 

Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to the 

Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 by the trust, the company and its employees, as applicable.    

 

Shareholders approval. 

 

6. (1) No scheme shall be offered to employees of a company unless the shareholders of the 

company approve it by passing a special resolution in the general meeting.  

 

    (2) The explanatory statement to the notice and the resolution proposed to be passed by 

shareholders for the schemes shall include the  information as specified by SEBI in this 

regard. 

 

(3) Approval of shareholders by way of separate resolution in the general meeting shall be 

obtained by the company in case of: 

(a). Secondary acquisition for implementation of the schemes. Such approval shall 

mention the percentage of secondary acquisition (subject to limits specified under 

these regulations) that could be undertaken;  

(b). Secondary acquisition by the trust in case the share capital expands due to capital 

expansion undertaken by the company including preferential allotment of shares 

or qualified institutions placement, to maintain the five per cent. cap as prescribed 

under sub-regulation (11) of regulation 3 of such increased capital of the 

company; 

(c). Grant of option, SAR, shares  or other  benefits, as the case may be, to employees 

of subsidiary or holding 4[***] company;  

(d). Grant of option, SAR, shares or benefits, as the case may be, to identified 

employees, during any one year, equal to or exceeding one per cent. of the issued 

capital (excluding outstanding warrants and conversions) of the company at the 

time of grant of option, SAR, shares or incentive, as the case may be. 

 

 
4 The words “or associate” omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share based Employee Benefits) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2015 (w.e.f  18.09.2015) 



16 

 

Variation of terms of the schemes. 

 

7. (1) The company shall not vary the terms of the schemes in any manner, which may be 

detrimental to the interests of the employees:  

 

Provided that the company shall be entitled to vary the terms of the schemes to meet any 

regulatory requirements.  

 

    (2) Subject to the proviso to sub-regulation (1), the company may by special resolution in a 

general meeting vary the terms of the schemes offered pursuant to an earlier resolution of 

the general body but not yet exercised by the employee provided such variation is not 

prejudicial to the interests of the employees.  

 

    (3) The provisions of regulation 6 shall apply to such variation of terms as they apply to the 

original grant of option, SAR, shares or other benefits, as the case may be.  

 

(4) The notice for passing special resolution for variation of terms of the schemes shall 

disclose full details of the variation, the rationale therefore, and the details of the 

employees who are beneficiaries of such variation. 

 

 (5) A company may reprice the options, SAR or shares, as the case may be which are not 

exercised, whether or not they have been vested if the schemes were rendered unattractive 

due to fall in the price of the shares in the stock market: 

 

Provided that the company ensures that such repricing shall not be detrimental to the 

interest of the employees and approval of the shareholders in general meeting has been 

obtained for such repricing. 

 

Winding up of the schemes. 

 



17 

 

8.     In case of winding up of the schemes being implemented by a company through trust, the 

excess monies or shares remaining with the trust after meeting all the obligations, if any, 

shall be utilised for repayment of loan or by way of distribution to employees as 

recommended by the compensation committee.  

 

Non-transferability. 

 

9.(1) Option, SAR or any other benefit granted to an employee under the regulations shall not be 

transferable to any person.  

 

(2)  No person other than the employee to whom the option, SAR  or other benefit is granted 

shall be entitled to the benefit arising out of such option, SAR, benefit etc. : 

 

 Provided that in case of ESOS or SAR, under cashless exercise, the company may itself 

fund or permit the empanelled stock brokers to fund the payment of exercise price which 

shall be adjusted against the sale proceeds of some or all the shares, subject to the 

provisions of the applicable law or regulations.  

 

(3)  The option, SAR,  or any other benefit granted to the employee shall not be pledged, 

hypothecated, mortgaged or otherwise alienated in any other manner.  

 

(4)  In the event of death of the employee while in employment, all the options, SAR or any 

other benefit granted to him under a scheme till such date shall vest in the legal heirs or 

nominees of the deceased employee. 

 

(5) In case the employee suffers a permanent incapacity while in employment, all the options, 

SAR or any other benefit granted to him under a scheme as on the date of permanent 

incapacitation, shall vest in him on that day. 

 

(6)  In the event of resignation or termination of the employee, all the options, SAR,  or any 

other benefit which are granted and yet not vested as on that day shall expire: 



18 

 

  

 Provided that an employee shall, subject to the terms and conditions formulated by the 

compensation committee under the sub-regulation (3) of regulation 5, be entitled to retain 

all the vested options, SAR,  or any other benefit covered by these regulations.  

 

(7)  In the event that an employee who has been granted benefits under a scheme is transferred 

or deputed to an associate company prior to vesting or exercise, the vesting and exercise as 

per the terms of grant shall continue in case of such transferred or deputed employee even 

after the transfer or deputation.  

 

Listing. 

 

10.  In case new issue of shares is made under any scheme, shares so issued shall be listed 

immediately in any recognised stock exchange where the existing shares are listed, subject 

to the following conditions: 

 

(a). Scheme is in compliance with these regulations; 

(b). A statement as specified by SEBI in this regard, is filed and the company has 

obtained an in-principle approval from the stock exchanges; 

(c). As and when an exercise is made, the company notifies the concerned stock 

exchange as per the statement as specified by SEBI in this regard.  

 

Schemes implemented by unlisted companies. 

 

11. The shares arising after the initial public offering (“IPO”) of an unlisted company, out of 

options or SAR  granted under any scheme prior to its IPO to the employees shall be listed 

immediately upon exercise in all the recognised stock exchanges where the shares of the 

company are listed subject to compliance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 and where applicable, 

sub-regulation (1) of regulation 12. 

 



19 

 

Compliances and conditions. 

 

12. (1) No company shall make any fresh grant which involves allotment or transfer of shares to 

its employees under any schemes formulated prior to its IPO and prior to the listing of its 

equity shares ('pre-IPO scheme’) unless: 

 

(i) Such pre-IPO scheme is in conformity with these regulations; and 

(ii) Such pre-IPO scheme is ratified by its shareholders subsequent to the IPO. 

 

Provided that the ratification under clause (ii) may be done any time prior to grant of new 

options or shares or SAR  under such pre-IPO scheme. 

 

(2)    No change shall be made in the terms of options or shares or SAR issued under such pre-

IPO schemes, whether by repricing, change in vesting period or maturity or otherwise 

unless prior approval of the shareholders is taken for such a change, except for any 

adjustments for corporate actions made in accordance with these regulations. 

 

(3) For listing of shares issued pursuant to ESOS, ESPS or SAR , the company shall obtain the 

in-principle approval of the stock exchanges where it proposes to list the said shares. 

 

(4) When holding company issues option, share, SAR or benefits to the employee of its 

subsidiary, the cost incurred by the holding company for issuing such option, share, SAR or 

benefits shall be disclosed in the 'notes to accounts' of the financial statements of the 

subsidiary company. 

 

(5) In a case falling under sub-regulation (4), if the subsidiary reimburses the cost incurred by 

the holding company in granting option, share, SAR or benefits to the employees of the 

subsidiary, both the subsidiary as well as the holding company shall disclose the payment 

or receipt, as the case may be, in the ‘notes to accounts’ to their financial statements. 

 



20 

 

(6) The company shall appoint a registered merchant banker for the implementation of 

schemes covered by these regulations till the stage of obtaining in-principle approval from 

the stock exchanges in accordance with clause (b) of regulation 10. 

 

Certificate from auditors. 

 

13. In the case of every company that has passed a resolution for the schemes under these 

regulations, the board of directors shall at each annual general meeting place before the 

shareholders a certificate from the auditors of the company that the scheme(s) has been 

implemented in accordance with these regulations and in accordance with the resolution of 

the company in the general meeting. 

 

 

Disclosures. 

 

14. In addition to the information that a company is required to disclose, in relation to 

employee benefits under the Companies Act, 2013, the board of directors of such a 

company shall also disclose the details of the scheme(s) being implemented, as specified by 

SEBI in this regard.  

 

Accounting policies. 

 

15. (1) Any company implementing any of the share based schemes shall follow the requirements 

of the 'Guidance Note on Accounting for employee share-based Payments' (Guidance Note) 

or Accounting Standards as may be prescribed by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 

India (ICAI) from time to time, including the disclosure requirements prescribed therein. 

 

(2) Where the existing Guidance Note or Accounting Standard do not prescribe accounting 

treatment or disclosure requirements for any of the schemes covered under these 

regulations then the company shall comply with the relevant Accounting Standard as may 

be prescribed by the ICAI from time to time.  



21 

 

CHAPTER III 

 

ADMINISTRATION OF SPECIFIC SCHEMES 

 

PART A: EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION SCHEME (ESOS) 

 

Administration and implementation. 

 

16. (1) Subject to the provisions of these regulations, the ESOS shall contain the details of the 

manner in which the scheme will be implemented and operated. 

 

(2) No ESOS shall be offered unless the disclosures, as specified by Board in this regard, are 

made by the company to the prospective option grantees.    

  

Pricing. 

 

17. The company granting option to its employees pursuant to ESOS will have the freedom to 

determine the exercise price subject to conforming to the accounting policies specified in 

regulation 15. 

 

Vesting period. 

 

18.(1) There shall be a minimum vesting period of one year in case of ESOS: 

 

Provided that in case where options are granted by a company under an ESOS in lieu of 

options held by a person under an ESOS in another company which has merged or 

amalgamated with that company, the period during which the options granted by the 

transferor company were held by him shall be adjusted against the minimum vesting period 

required under this sub-regulation. 

 



22 

 

(2) The company may specify the lock-in period for the shares issued pursuant to exercise of 

option. 

 

Rights of the option holder. 

 

19. The employee shall not have right to receive any dividend or to vote or in any manner 

enjoy the benefits of a shareholder in respect of option granted to him, till shares are issued 

upon exercise of option.  

 

Consequence of failure to exercise option. 

 

20. The amount payable by the employee, if any, at the time of grant of option, - 

(a). may be forfeited by the company if the option is not exercised by the employee within 

the exercise period; or  

(b). may be refunded to the employee if the options are not vested due to non-fulfilment of 

conditions relating to vesting of option as per the ESOS.  

 

 

PART B: EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE SCHEME (ESPS) 

 

Administration and implementation. 

 

21. Subject to the provisions of these regulations, the ESPS scheme shall contain the details of 

the manner in which the scheme will be implemented and operated. 

 

 Pricing and lock-in. 

 

22.(1) The company may determine the price of shares to be issued under an ESPS, provided 

they conform to the provisions of accounting policies under regulation 15. 

 



23 

 

(2) Shares issued under an ESPS shall be locked-in for a minimum period of one year from the 

date of allotment: 

 

Provided that in case where shares are allotted by a company under an ESPS in lieu of 

shares acquired by the same person under an ESPS in another company which has merged 

or amalgamated with the first mentioned company, the lock-in period already undergone in 

respect of shares of the transferor company shall be adjusted against the lock-in period 

required under this sub-regulation.  

 

(3) If ESPS is part of a public issue and the shares are issued to employees at the same price as 

in the public issue, the shares issued to employees pursuant to ESPS shall not be subject to 

lock-in. 

 

PART C : STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS SCHEME (SARS) 

Administration and implementation. 

 

23. (1) Subject to the provisions of these regulations, the SAR scheme shall contain the details of 

the manner in which the scheme will be implemented and operated. 

 

  (2) Subject to the provisions of these regulations, a company shall have the freedom to 

implement cash settled or equity settled SAR scheme: 

 

Provided that in case of equity settled SAR scheme, if the settlement results in fractional 

shares, then the consideration for fractional shares should be settled in cash.  

 

(3) No SAR shall be offered unless the disclosures, as specified by Board in this regard, are 

made by the company to the prospective SAR grantees. 

 

Vesting. 

 

24. (1) There shall be a minimum vesting period of one year in case of SAR scheme:  



24 

 

 

Provided that in a case where SAR is granted by a company under a SAR scheme in lieu of 

SAR held by the same person under a SAR scheme in another company which has merged 

or amalgamated with the first mentioned company, the period during which the SAR 

granted by the transferor company were held by the employee shall be adjusted against the 

minimum vesting period required under this sub-regulation. 

 

Rights of the SAR holder. 

 

25. The employee shall not have right to receive dividend or to vote or in any manner enjoy the 

benefits of a shareholder in respect of SAR granted to him.   

 

 

PART D : GENERAL EMPLOYEE BENEFITS SCHEME (GEBS) 

 

Administration and implementation. 

 

26. (1) Subject to the provisions of these regulations, GEBS shall contain the details of the 

scheme and the manner in which the scheme shall be implemented and operated. 

 

       (2)    At no point in time, the shares of the company or shares of its listed holding company 

shall exceed ten per cent of the book value or market value or fair value of the total assets 

of the scheme, whichever is lower, as appearing in its latest balance sheet for the purposes 

of GEBS. 

 

PART E: RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEME (RBS) 

 

Administration and implementation. 

27. (1) Retirement benefit scheme may be implemented by a company provided it is in 

compliance with these regulations, and provisions of any other law in force in relation to 

retirement benefits.  



25 

 

 

(2) The retirement benefit scheme shall contain the details of the benefits under the scheme 

and the manner in which the scheme shall be implemented and operated.   

 

(3)    At no point in time, the shares of the company or shares of its listed holding company shall 

exceed ten per cent of the book value or market value or fair value of the total assets of the 

scheme, whichever is lower, as appearing in its latest balance sheet for the purposes of 

RBS. 

 

5[CHAPTER III-A 

POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 

 

Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 

27A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any 

of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding 

twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to testing new 

products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory 

sandbox in the securities markets. 

 

(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the 

applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions 

to be complied with on a continuous basis. 

 

Explanation. — For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means a live testing 

environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be 

deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering 

innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the 

Board.] 

 

 

CHAPTER IV 

 
5 Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17-04-2020. 



26 

 

 

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS  

 

Power to remove difficulties. 

 

28. (1) In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation and application of the 

provisions of these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue clarifications 

through guidance notes or circulars. 

 

 (2) The Board shall have power to specify such disclosure and process requirements 

through guidance notes or circulars, as may be necessary for protection of interest of 

investors, securities market and for regulation of all schemes, by listed companies for the 

benefit of their employees, involving dealing, directly or indirectly, in shares and matters 

connected therewith or incidental thereto.   

 

Power to relax strict enforcement of the regulations. 

 

29. (1) The Board may suo motu or on an application made by a company, for reasons 

recorded in writing, grant relaxation from strict compliance with any of these regulations 

subject to such conditions as the Board deems fit to impose in the interests of investors in 

securities and the securities market. 

 

 (2) A company making an application under sub-regulation (1), shall pay a non-refundable 

fee of rupees one lakh 6[by way of direct credit in the bank account through 

NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or] by way of a banker's cheque or 

demand draft payable at Mumbai in favour of the Board.  

 

 

 

 
6 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2017 (w.e.f. 6-3-2017). 



27 

 

Directions by the Board and action in case of default.  

 

30. The Board may issue any direction or order or undertake any measure in the interests of the 

investors or the securities market, and deal with any contravention of these regulations, in 

exercise of its powers under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 

1992), the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) or the Companies Act, 

2013 (18 of 2013) and any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto.  

 

Repeals and savings.  

 

31. (1) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee 

Stock Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 1999 are hereby repealed.  

 

(2)  Notwithstanding such repeal, - 

 

(a) prohibition on acquiring securities from the secondary market as provided in SEBI 

circular CIR/CFD/POLICYCELL/3/2014 dated June 27, 2014 shall continue till the 

existing schemes are aligned with these regulations;   

 

(b) all listed companies having existing schemes to which these regulations apply are 

required to comply with these regulations in their entirety within one year of the same 

coming into effect, subject to the following exceptions: 

 

(i) trusts holding shares, for the purposes of implementing employee benefits 

schemes of the company, beyond the permissible limits as provided under these 

regulations, shall have a period of five years to bring down its holding in shares to 

such limits; 

 

(ii) trusts holding shares, for the purposes of implementing GEBS or RBS, which 

exceed ten per cent. of the total value of the total assets of the trust(s)  as provided 



28 

 

under these regulations, shall have a period of five years to bring down its holding 

in shares to such limits; 

 

(iii) for the purposes of sub-regulation (9) of regulation 3 and ensuring compliance 

with the requirement of maintaining adequate public shareholding, those trusts 

holding shares of the company which are shown either as ‘promoter’ or ‘public’ 

shareholding, shall be permitted to continue to be shown them as such for a 

further period of only 7[three] years;  

 

(iv) 8[trustees of a trust may continue to vote in respect of shares held by such trust for 

a period of three years, commencing from 28th of October, 2014.] 

 

(c) the previous operation of the repealed guidelines or anything duly done or suffered 

thereunder, any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred 

under the repealed guidelines, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect 

of any offence committed against the repealed guidelines, or any investigation, legal 

proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, 

penalty, forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid, shall remain unaffected as if the 

repealed guidelines had never been repealed;   

 

(d) anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken including 

any adjudication, enquiry or investigation commenced or show-cause notice issued 

under the repealed guidelines prior to such repeal, shall be deemed to have been done 

or taken under the corresponding provisions of these regulations; and  

 

(e) after the repeal of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employee Stock Option 

Scheme and Employee Stock Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 1999, any reference 

thereto in any other regulations made, guidelines or circulars issued thereunder by the 

 
7 Subs. by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share based Employee Benefits) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2015 for “five” (w.e.f  18.09.2015) 
8 Ins. by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share based Employee Benefits) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015, 

Regulation  (w.e.f  18.09.2015) 



29 

 

Board shall be deemed to be a reference to the corresponding provisions of these 

regulations.  

 

 

 

 

 

U. K. SINHA 

CHAIRMAN 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

 

 


