




















































 

1 

 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA  

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART – III – SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

NEW DELHI, SEPTEMBER 26, 2014 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the 26th of September, 2014 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS) 

REGULATIONS, 2014 

No. LAD-NRO/GN/2014-15/11/1576 - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 read 

with section 11 and 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), 

laying down a framework for Real Estate Investment Trusts and registration and regulation 

thereof, the Securities and Exchange Board of India hereby, makes the following regulations, 

namely, — 

 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

Short title and commencement. 

1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate 

Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their notification in the Official Gazette. 

 

Definitions. 

2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall 

bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions shall be construed 

accordingly,–           

(a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 



 

2 

 

(b)  “associate” of any person 1[shall be as defined under the Companies Act, 2013 or 

under the applicable accounting standards and shall also include following],- 

 (i) any person controlled, directly or indirectly, by the said person;  

 (ii) any person who controls, directly or indirectly, the said person;  

  (iii) where the said person is a company or a body corporate, any person(s) 

 who is designated as promoter(s) of the company or body corporate and any 

 other company or body corporate with the same promoter(s); 

 (iv) where the said person is an individual, any relative of the individual;  

 (v) 2[***] 

 (vi) 3[***] 

 (vii) 4[***] 

 (viii) 5[***] 

(c) "Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 

3 of the Act; 

(d) “body corporate” shall have  the meaning assigned to it in or under sub-section (11) of 

section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013; 

(e) “bonus issue” means additional units allotted to the unit holders as on the record date 

fixed for the said purpose, without any cost to the unit holder; 

(f)  “certificate” means a certificate of registration granted under these regulations; 

(g) "change in control"  means,- 

 
1 Substituted for "includes" by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016 
2 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 

Prior to its omission, sub-clause (v) read as under : 

“where the said person is a company or a body corporate or an LLP, its group companies;” 
3 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 

Prior to its omission, sub-clause (vi) read as under :  

“companies or LLPs under the same management;” 
4 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
Prior to its omission, sub-clause (vii) read as under :  

 “where the said person is a REIT, related parties to the REIT;” 
5 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 

Prior to its omission, sub-clause (viii) read as under :  

“any company or LLP or body corporate in which the person or its director(s) or partner(s) hold(s), either 

individually or collectively, more than fifteen percent of its paid-up equity share capital or partnership interest, 

as the case may be;” 



 

3 

 

(i) in case of a company or body corporate, change in control where 'control' shall 

have the meaning as provided in sub-section (27) of section 2 of the Companies 

Act, 2013; 

(ii) in any other case, change in the controlling interest; 

      Explanation.─ For the purpose of sub-clause (ii), the expression “controlling 

interest” means an interest, whether direct or indirect, to the extent of 6[not less] 

than fifty percent of voting rights or interest; 

(h) “company” means a company as defined under sub-section (20) of section 2 of the 

Companies Act, 2013; 

(i) “completed property” means property for which occupancy certificate has been 

received from the relevant authority; 

(j) “credit rating agency” means a credit rating agency registered with the Board under the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999; 

(k)  “custodian” means a person registered with the Board under the Securities and 

Exchange Board of India (Custodian of Securities) Regulations, 1996; 

7[(ka) “debt securities” shall be as defined under Regulation 2(1)(e) of SEBI (Issue and 

Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008;] 

(l) “designated stock exchange” means a recognised stock exchange in which units of a 

REIT are listed or proposed to be listed and which is chosen by the REIT as a designated 

stock exchange for the purpose of a particular issue of the units of the REIT under these 

regulations: 

Provided that where one or more of such stock exchanges have nationwide trading 

terminals, the REIT shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange: 

Provided further that subject to the provisions of this clause, the REIT may choose a 

different recognised stock exchange as a designated stock exchange for any subsequent 

issue of units of the REIT under these regulations; 

 
6 Substituted for the word “more” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.  
7 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 



 

4 

 

(m) "floor space index" or "FSI" shall mean the buildable area on a plot of land as specified 

by the competant authority; 

(n)  “follow–on offer” means offer of units of a listed REIT to the public for subscription 

and includes an offer for sale of REIT units by an existing unit holder to the public; 

(o) 8[***] 

(p) “form” means any of the forms set out in the Schedule I of these regulations; 

9[(pa) "general purposes" include such identified purposes for which no specific amount 

is allocated or any amount so specified towards general purpose or any such purpose 

by whatever name called, in the offer document filed with the Board:  

Provided that any issue related expenses shall not be considered as a part of general 

purpose merely because no specific amount has been allocated for such expenses in the 

offer document filed with the Board;”] 

(q) "governing board” in case of an LLP shall mean a group of members assigned by the 

LLP to act in a manner similar to the Board of directors in case of a company;“initial 

offer” means the first offer of units of an REIT to the public for subscription and 

includes an offer for sale of REIT units by an existing unit holder to the public; 

10[“(qa) “holdco” or “holding company” shall mean a company or LLP.,- 

(i) in which REIT holds or proposes to hold 11[***] not less than fifty 12[***] 

per cent. of the equity share capital or interest and which it in turn has made 

investments in other SPV(s), which ultimately hold the property(ies); 

(ii) which is not engaged in any other activity other than holding of the 

underlying SPV(s), holding of real estate/properties and any other activities 

pertaining to and incidental to such holdings;”; 

(qb) “initial offer” means the first offer of units of an REIT to the public for subscription 

and includes an offer for sale of REIT units by an existing unit holder to the public;] 

 
8 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
Prior to its omission, clause (o) read as under :  

““follow-on offer document” means any document by which follow-on  offer is made to the public;” 
9 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
10 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
11 Words “controlling interest and” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment 

Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
12 Word “one” omitted ibid. 



 

5 

 

(r) 13[***] 

(s) “inspecting officer” means any one or more person appointed by the Board  to exercise 

powers conferred under Chapter VII of these regulations; 

(t) “investment management agreement” means an agreement between the trustee and the 

manager which lays down the roles and responsibilities of the manager towards the 

REIT; 

(u)  “listed REIT” means a REIT whose units are listed on a recognized stock exchange; 

(v) "LLP" means a limited liability partnership as defined under the Limited Liability 

Partnership Act, 2008;  

(w) “manager” means a company or LLP or body corporate incorporated in India which 

manages assets and investments of the REIT and undertakes operational activities of 

the REIT; 

(x) "net asset value” or "NAV" means the value of the REIT 14[assets reduced by the 

external debt] divided by the number of outstanding units as on a particular date;  

(y) “net worth” in relation to a company or a body corporate shall have  the meaning 

assigned to it under sub-section (57) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013; 

(za) “occupancy certificate” means a completion certificate, or such other certificate, as the 

case may be, issued by the competent authority permitting occupation of any property 

under any law for the time being in force; 

(zb) "offer document" means any document described or issued as an offer document 

including any notice, circular, advertisement or other document inviting offers                 

15[through a public issue] for the subscription or purchase of units of the REIT and 

includes initial offer document, follow-on offer document16[, letter of offer in case of 

rights issue] and any other document as may be specified by the Board; 

 
13 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 

Prior to its omission, clause (r) read as under :  

““initial offer document” means any documentby which initial offer is made to the public by the REIT;” 
14 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
15 Substituted for “from the public” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
16 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

6 

 

(zc)  “parties to the REIT” shall include the 17[sponsor group(s)], re-designated sponsor(s), 

manager, and trustee; 

(zd) “preferential issue” means an issue of units by a listed REIT to any select person or 

group of persons on a private placement basis and does not include an offer of units 

made through a public issue, rights issue, bonus issue, qualified institutions placement 

or any other issue as may be specified by the Board; 

(ze) “public” for the purposes of  offer and listing of units means any person other than 

related party of the REIT or any other person as may be specified by the Board: 

 Provided that in case any related party to the REIT is a qualified institutional buyer, 

such person shall be included under the term 'public'; 

(zf) “public issue” means an initial offer or follow-on offer or any other issue made to the 

public as may be specified by the Board; 

(zg) “qualified institutional buyer” shall have the meaning assigned to it under clause (zd) 

of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the SEBI (Issue Of Capital And Disclosure 

Requirements) Regulations, 2009; 

(zh) “qualified institutions placement” means allotment of units by a listed REIT to qualified 

institutional buyers on private placement basis in terms of these regulations; 

(zi) “real estate” or “property” means land and any permanently attached improvements to 

it, whether leasehold or freehold and includes buildings, sheds, garages, fences, fittings, 

fixtures, warehouses, car parks, etc. and any other assets incidental to the ownership of 

real estate but does not include mortgage: 

 Provided that any asset falling under the purview of 'infrastructure' as defined vide 

Notification of Ministry of Finance dated October 07, 2013 including any amendments 

or additions made thereof shall not be considered as 'real estate' or 'property' for the 

purpose of these regulations; 

 18[Notwithstanding the above, following captured within the abovementioned definition 

of infrastructure shall be considered under “real estate” or “property”,- 

 
17 Substituted for “sponsor(s)” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 

w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
18 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

7 

 

(i)    hotels, hospitals and convention centers, forming part of composite real estate 

projects, whether rent generating or income generating; 

(ii)   common infrastructure" for composite real estate projects, industrial parks and 

SEZ;] 

(zj) 19[“real estate assets” means properties held by REIT, on a freehold or leasehold basis, 

whether directly or through a holdco and/or a special purpose vehicle]; 

(zk) “recognised stock exchange” means any stock exchange which is recognised under 

section 4 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956); 

(zl) "re-designated sponsor" means any person who has assumed the responsibility of the 

sponsor as provided under regulation 11 from the person as designated under clause (zt) 

of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation or from any re-designated sponsor thereafter;  

(zm) “REIT” or "Real Estate Investment Trust" shall mean a trust registered as such under 

these regulations; 

(zn) 20[“REIT assets” means real estate assets and any other assets held by the REIT, on a 

freehold or leasehold basis, whether directly or through a holdco and/or a special 

purpose vehicle.”]; 

(zo) 21[“related party” shall be defined under the Companies Act, 2013 or under the 

applicable accounting standards and shall also include:] 

(i) parties to the REIT; 

(ii) 22[***] 

 
19 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. Prior to the substitution, the definition read as follows: 

““real estate assets” means properties owned by REIT whether directly or through a special purpose vehicle” 
20 Substituted ibid. Prior to the substitution, the definition read as follows: 
““REIT assets” means real estate assets and any other assets owned by the REIT whether directly or through a 
20[holdco and /or] special purpose vehicle”  
21 Substituted for ““related party to the REIT” shall include:” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
22 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 

Prior to its omission, sub-clause (ii) read as under :  

“any unit holder holding, directly or indirectly, more than twenty per cent. of the units of the REIT;” 



 

8 

 

(iii) 23[***] 24[promoters] 25[***], directors and partners of the persons in clause (i) 

26[***]; 

(zp) "rent generating property" means property which has been leased or rented out in 

accordance with an agreement entered into for the purpose; 

(zq) “rights issue” means an offer of units by a listed REIT to the unit holders of the REIT 

as on the record date fixed for the said purpose; 

(zr) “right-of-first-refusal” or "ROFR" of a REIT means the right given to the REIT by a 

person to enter into a transaction with it before the person is entitled to enter that 

transaction with any other party; 

(zs) "special purpose vehicle" or "SPV" means any company or LLP, - 

(i) in which 27[either the REIT or the holdco] holds or proposes to hold 28[***] not 

less than fifty 29[30[***]] per cent. of the equity share capital or interest;  

(ii) which holds not less than eighty per cent. of its assets directly in properties and 

does not invest in other special purpose vehicles; and 

(iii) which is not  engaged in any  activity other than holding and developing property 

and any other activity incidental to such holding or development; 

(zt) “sponsor” means any person(s) who set(s) up the REIT and designated as such at the 

time of application made to the Board; 

 31[“(zta) “sponsor group” – includes: 

(i) the sponsor(s);  

(ii) in case the sponsor is a body corporate: 

a.     entities or person(s) which are controlled by such body corporate;  

 
23 Omitted “associates,”, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016.  
24 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.  
25The word “sponsors” was omitted ibid. 
26 Omitted“and (ii)”, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016.  
27 Substituted for “the REIT” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 

w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
28 Words “controlling interest and” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment 

Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
29 Word “one” omitted ibid. 
30 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
31 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

9 

 

b.     entities or person(s) who control such body corporate;  

c.     entities or person(s) which are controlled by person(s) as referred at clause 

b. 

(iii) in case sponsor is an individual: 

a.     an immediate relative of such individual (i.e., any spouse of that person, or 

any parent, brother, sister or child of the person or of the spouse); and  

b.     entities or person(s) which are controlled by such individual;] 

32[(ztb) “strategic investor” means, -  

a. an infrastructure finance company registered with the Reserve Bank of India 

as a Non-Banking Financial Company; 

b. a Scheduled Commercial Bank;  

c. a multilateral 33[and/or] bilateral development financial institution;  

d. a systemically important Non-Banking Financial Company registered with 

the Reserve Bank of India;  

e. a foreign portfolio investor, 

who invest, either jointly or severally, not less than five per cent. of the total offer size of 

the REIT or such amount as may be specified by the Board from time to time, subject to the 

compliance with the applicable provisions, if any, of the Foreign Exchange Management 

Act, 1999 and the rules or regulations or guidelines made thereunder;] 

(zu) "transferable development rights" or "TDR" shall mean development rights issued by 

the competent authority under relevant laws in lieu of the area relinquished or 

surrendered by the owner or developer or by way of declared incentives by the 

government or authority; 

(zv) “trustee” means a person who holds the REIT assets in trust for the benefit of the unit 

holders, in accordance with these regulations; 

(zw) “under-construction property” means a property of which construction is not complete 

and occupancy certificate has not been received;  

(zx) “unit” means beneficial interest of the REIT; 

(zy) “unit holder” means any person who owns units of the REIT; 

 
32 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
33 Substituted for the word “and” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 



 

10 

 

34[“(zz) “valuer” means any person who is a “registered valuer” under section 247 of the 

Companies Act, 2013 or as specified by the Board from time to time.] 

  

 

(zza) 35[***] 

(zzb) "value of the REIT assets" means aggregate value  of all the assets under the REIT as 

assessed by the valuer. 

 

(2) The words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations, but defined in the 

Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, (42 of 1956), the Companies Act, 2013 

 
34 Substituted by the SEBI (Real Estate (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 

15.12.2017. Prior to the substitution, the definition of the term “valuer” read as follows: 

“(zz) “valuer” means any person who is a "registered valuer" under section 247 of the Companies Act, 2013 
34[or as defined hereunder] and who has34[/have] been appointed by the manager to undertake 34[both 

financial and technical] valuation of the REIT assets: 

 34[“(a) a valuer in respect of financial valuation, means,- 

(i) a chartered accountant, company secretary or cost accountant who is in whole-time practice, 

or retired member of Indian Corporate Law Service or any person holding equivalent 
Indian or foreign qualification as the Ministry of Corporate Affairs may recognize by an 

order: 

Provided that such foreign qualification is acquired by Indian citizen. 

(ii) a Merchant Banker registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India, and who 

has in his employment person(s) having qualifications prescribed under (i) above to carry 

out valuation by such qualified persons; 

(b) a valuer in respect of technical asset valuation, means members of the following institutions for 

specific asset categories,- 

(i) Institution of Valuers; 

(ii) Institution of Surveyors (Valuation Branch); 

(iii) Institution of Government Approved Valuers; 
(iv) Practicing Valuers Association of India; 

(v) Centre for Valuation Studies, Research and Training; 

(vi) Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, UK; 

(vii) American Society of Appraisers, United States; 

(viii) Appraisal Institute, United States; 

(ix) Institute of Engineers; 

(x) Council of Architecture or the Indian Institute of Architects: 

 

Provided that, the persons referred to in sub-sub-clause (i) and qualified person referred 

to in sub-sub-clause (ii) of sub-clause (a) above, shall have not less than five years 

continuous experience after acquiring membership of respective institutions: 

Provided further that, the persons referred to in sub-sub-clauses (i) to (x) of sub-clause 
(b) above, shall have a minimum working experience of five years in relevant areas of 

valuation practice and in relation to relevant asset value and categories; and be citizens 

of India;” 
35 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 

Prior to its omission, clause (zza) read as under :  

“"value of the REIT" means value  of the REIT as certified by the auditor based on the value of REIT assets 

held directly or through the SPV excluding any debt or liabilities thereof;” 



 

11 

 

(18 of 2013), or any rules or regulations made thereunder, shall have the same meanings 

respectively assigned to them in those Acts, rules or regulations, or any statutory modification 

or re-enactment thereto, as the case may be. 

 

CHAPTER II 

REGISTRATION OF REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS 

Registration of real estate investment trusts. 

3. (1) No person shall act as a REIT unless it is registered with the Board under these 

regulations. 

(2) An application for grant of certificate of registration as REIT shall be made, by the sponsor 

36[on behalf of the trust] in Form A as specified in the Schedule I to these regulations and shall 

be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee of such amount and shall be payable in 

the manner as specified in Schedule II to these regulations. 

(3) The Board may, in order to protect the interests of investors, appoint any person to take 

charge of records, documents of the 37[REIT] and for this purpose, also determine the terms 

and conditions of such an appointment.  

(4) The Board shall take into account requirements as specified in these regulations for the 

purpose of considering grant of registration.   

 

Eligibility criteria.  

4. (1) For the purpose of the grant of certificate to 38[the trust], the Board shall consider all 

matters relevant to the activities as a REIT. 

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, the Board shall consider the 

following, namely, - 

 
36 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
37 Substituted for “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
38 Substituted ibid for “an applicant”. 



 

12 

 

(a) the applicant is 39[the sponsor on behalf of] trust and the instrument of trust is in the 

form of a deed duly registered in India under the provisions of the Registration Act, 

1908; 

(b) the trust deed has its main objective as undertaking activity of REIT in accordance with 

these regulations and includes responsibilities of the Trustee in accordance with 

regulation 9; 

(c) persons have been designated as sponsor(s), manager and trustee under these 

regulations and all such persons are separate entities; 

(d) with regard to sponsor(s),-  

(i) 40[each sponsor shall hold or propose] to hold not less than five per cent. of the 

number of units of the REIT on post-initial offer basis; 

41[(ia) each sponsor and sponsor group shall be clearly identified in the 

application of registration to the Board and in the offer document/placement 

memorandum, as applicable: 

Provided that, for each sponsor group not less than one person shall be 

identified as a sponsor;] 

42[Provided further that, of the entities categorized as sponsor group, only the 

following entities may be considered:  

a) a person or entity who is directly or indirectly holding an interest 

or shareholding in any of the assets or SPVs or holdcos proposed 

to be transferred to the REIT. 

b) a person or entity who is directly or indirectly holding units of 

the REIT on post-issue basis. 

c) a person or entity whose experience is being utilized by the 

sponsor for meeting with the eligibility conditions required 

under sub-clause (iii) of clause (d) of sub-regulation (2) of 

regulation 4 of these regulations.] 

 
39 Substituted for “a” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016 
40 Substituted for “there are not more than three sponsors  each holding or proposing” by the SEBI (Real Estate 

Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
41 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
42 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.  



 

13 

 

(ii) the sponsor(s), on a collective basis, have a net worth of not less than  one 

hundred crore rupees: 

Provided that each sponsor has a net worth of not less than twenty crore rupees; 

and  

(iii) the sponsor or its associate(s) has not less than five years experience in 

development of real estate or fund management in the real estate industry:  

Provided that where the sponsor is a developer, at least two projects of the 

sponsor have been completed; 

(e) with regard to the manager,- 

(i) the manager has a net worth of not less than ten crore rupees if the manager is 

a body corporate or a company or net tangible assets of value not less than ten 

crore rupees in case the manager is a LLP;  

(ii) the manager or its associate has not less than five years experience in fund 

management or advisory services or property management in the real estate 

industry or in development of real estate;  

(iii)the manager has not less than two key personnel who each have not less than 

five years experience in fund management or advisory services or property 

management in the real estate industry or in development of real estate;  

(iv) the manager has not less than half, of its directors in the case of a company or 

of members of the governing Board in case of an LLP, as independent and not 

directors or members of the governing Board 43[of the manager] of another 

REIT; and  

(v) the manager has entered into an investment management agreement with the 

trustee which provides for the responsibilities of the manager in accordance 

with regulation 10; 

(f) with regard to the trustee,-  

(i) the trustee is registered with the Board under SEBI(Debenture Trustees) 

Regulations, 1993 and is not an associate of the sponsor(s) or manager; and 

 
43 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 



 

14 

 

(ii) the trustee has such wherewithal with respect to infrastructure, personnel, etc. 

to the satisfaction of the Board and in accordance with circulars or guidelines 

as may be specified by the Board; 

(g) no unit holder of the REIT enjoys 44[superior] voting or any other rights over another 

unit holder 45[and there are no multiple classes of units of REIT:] 

46[Notwithstanding the above, subordinate units may be issued only to the sponsors 

and its associates, where such subordinate units shall carry only inferior voting or any 

other rights compared to other units;] 

(h) 47[***] 

(i) the applicant has clearly described at the time of application for registration, details 

pertaining to proposed activities of the REIT;  

(j) the 48[REIT] and parties to the REIT are fit and proper persons based on the criteria as 

specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) 

Regulations, 2008; 

(k) whether any previous application for grant of certificate by the 49[REIT or the parties 

to the REIT or their directors/members of governing board] has been rejected by the 

Board;  

(l) whether any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board or any other regulatory 

authority against the 50[REIT or the parties to the REIT or their directors/members of 

governing board] under any Act or the regulations or circulars or guidelines made 

thereunder. 

 

 
44 Substituted for “preferential” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 

w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
45 Substituted for “;” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016 
46 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
47 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
Prior to its omission, clause (h) read as under :  

“there are no multiple classes of units of REIT;” 
48 Substituted for “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
49 Substituted for the words “applicant or any related party” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017.  
50 Substituted ibid.  



 

15 

 

Furnishing of further information, clarification and personal representation. 

5. (1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish any such information or clarification as 

may be required by it for the purpose of processing of the application. 

(2) The Board, if it so desires, may require the applicant or any authorized representative to 

appear before the Board for personal representation in connection with the grant of certificate. 

 

Procedure for grant of certificate. 

6. (1) The Board on being satisfied that the 51[trust] fulfils, the requirements specified in 

regulation 4 shall send intimation to the [trust] and on receipt of the payment of registration 

fees as specified in Schedule II, grant certificate of registration in Form B under Schedule I.  

(2) The registration may be granted with such conditions as may be deemed appropriate by the 

Board. 

 

Conditions of certificate. 

7. The certificate granted under regulation 6 shall, inter-alia, be subject to the following 

conditions, namely,-   

(a) the REIT shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations;  

(b) the REIT shall forthwith inform the Board in writing, if any information or particulars 

previously submitted to the Board are found to be false or misleading in any material 

particular or if there is any material change in the information already submitted; 

(c) the REIT and parties to the REIT shall satisfy with the conditions specified in regulation 

4 at all times; 

(d) the REIT and parties to the REIT shall comply, at all times, with the Code of conduct 

as specified in the Schedule VI, wherever applicable. 

 

Procedure where registration is refused. 

 
51 Substituted for “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 



 

16 

 

8. (1) After considering an application made under regulation 3, if the Board is of the opinion 

that a certificate should not be granted to the 52[trust], it may reject the application after giving 

the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard. 

(2) The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant 

within thirty days of such decision. 

 

 

CHAPTER III 

RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARTIES TO THE REIT, VALUER AND 

AUDITOR 

Rights and responsibilities of trustee. 

9. (1) The trustee shall hold the REIT assets in trust for the benefit of the unit holders in 

accordance with the trust deed and these regulations.  

(2) The Trustee shall enter into an investment management agreement with the manager on 

behalf of the REIT. 

(3) The trustee shall oversee activities of the manager in the interest of the unit holders, ensure 

that the manager complies with regulation 10 and shall obtain compliance certificate from the 

manager in the form as may be specified on a quarterly basis.   

(4) The trustee shall ensure that the manager complies with the reporting and disclosures 

requirements in these regulations and in case of any delay or discrepancy, require the manager 

to rectify the same on an urgent basis. 

(5) The trustee shall review the transactions carried out between the manager and its associates 

and where the manager has advised that there may be a conflict of interest, shall obtain 

confirmation from a practising chartered accountant 53[or a valuer, as applicable,] that such 

transaction is on arm's length basis. 

(6) The trustee shall periodically review the status of unit holders' complaints and their 

redressal undertaken by the manager. 

 
52 Substituted for “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
53 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

17 

 

(7) The trustee shall make distributions in accordance with sub-regulation (16) of regulation 

18 and ensure that the manager makes timely declaration of distributions to the unit holders.  

(8) The trustee may require the manager to set up such systems and submit such reports to the 

trustees, as may be necessary for effective monitoring of the performance and functioning of 

the REIT. 

(9) The trustee shall ensure that subscription amount is kept in a separate bank account in name 

of the REIT and is only utilized for adjustment against allotment of units or refund of money 

to the applicants till the time such units are listed.  

(10) The trustee shall ensure that the remuneration of the valuer is not linked to or based on the 

value of the asset being valued. 

(11) The trustee shall ensure that the manager convenes meetings of the unit holders in 

accordance with these regulations and oversee the voting by unitholders and declare outcome 

of the voting. 

(12) The trustee may take up with the Board or with the designated stock exchange, any matter 

which has been approved in an annual meeting or special meeting, if the matter requires such 

action. 

(13) In case of any change in manager due to removal or otherwise,- 

(a) prior to such change, the trustee shall obtain approval from unit holders in 

accordance with regulation 22 and approval from the Board; 

(b) the trustee shall appoint the new manager within three months from the date of 

termination of the earlier investment management agreement; 

(c) the previous manager shall continue to act as such at the discretion of trustee till 

such time as new manager is appointed; 

(d) the trustee shall ensure that the new manager shall stand substituted as a party in 

all the documents to which the earlier manager was a party;  

(e) the trustee shall ensure that the earlier manager continues to be liable for all its acts 

of omissions and commissions notwithstanding such termination. 

(14) The trustee shall obtain prior approval from the unit holders in accordance with regulation 

22 and from the Board in case of change in control of the manager. 



 

18 

 

(15) The trustee 54[of the REIT” shall be substituted] shall not invest in units of the REIT in 

which it is designated as the trustee. 

(16) The trustee shall ensure that the activity of the REIT is being operated in accordance with 

the provisions of the trust deed, these regulations, the offer document and if any discrepancy is 

noticed, shall inform the same to the Board immediately in writing. 

(17) The trustee shall provide to the Board and to the designated stock exchange such 

information as may be sought by the Board or by the designated stock exchange pertaining to 

the activity of the REIT. 

(18) The trustee shall immediately inform to the Board in case any act which is detrimental to 

the interest of the unit holders is noted.  

 

Rights and responsibilities of manager. 

10. (1) The manager shall make the investment decisions with respect to the underlying assets 

of the REIT including any further investment or divestment of the assets. 

(2) The manager shall ensure that the real estate assets of the REIT or 55[holdco and/or] SPV 

have proper legal and marketable titles and that all the material contracts including rental or 

lease agreements entered into on behalf of REITs or 56[holdco and/or] SPV are legal, valid, 

binding and enforceable by and on behalf of the REIT or 57[holdco and/or] SPV. 

(3) The manager shall ensure that the investments made by the REIT are in accordance with 

the investment conditions specified in regulation 18 and in accordance with the investment 

strategy of the REIT.  

(4) The manager shall undertake management of the REIT assets including lease management, 

maintenance of the assets, regular structural audits, regular safety audits, etc. either directly or 

through the appointment and supervision of appropriate agents.  

(5) The manager, in consultation with trustee, shall appoint the valuer(s), auditor, registrar and 

transfer agent, merchant banker, custodian and any other intermediary or service provider or 

agent for managing the assets of the REIT or for offer and listing of its units or any other 

activity pertaining to the REIT in a timely manner and in accordance with these regulations. 

 
54 Substituted for “and its associates” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
55 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
56 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
57 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

19 

 

(6) The manager shall appoint an auditor for a period of not more than five consecutive years: 

Provided that the auditor, not being an individual, may be reappointed for a period of another 

five consecutive years, subject to approval of unit-holders in the annual meeting.  

(7) The manager shall arrange for adequate insurance coverage for the real estate assets of the 

REIT: 

Provided that in case of assets held by 58[holdco and/or] SPV, the manager shall ensure that 

real estate assets are adequately insured. 

(8) If the REIT invests in under-construction properties as per these regulations, the manager-  

(a) may undertake the development of the properties, either directly or through the 

SPV, or appoint any other person for development of such properties; and 

(b) shall oversee the progress of development, approval status and other aspects of the 

properties upto its completion. 

(9) The manager shall ensure that it has adequate infrastructure and sufficient key personnel 

with adequate experience and qualification to undertake management of the REIT at all times.  

(10) The manager 59[and the merchant banker(s) shall] shall be responsible for,- 

(a) filing 60[***] offer document with the Board and the designated stock exchange 

within the specified time period; 

(b) obtaining in-principle approval 61[and final listing and trading approvals] from the 

designated stock exchange; 

(c) dealing with all matters relating to issue and listing of the units of the REIT as 

specified in Chapter IV. 

(11) The manager 62[and the merchant banker(s),] shall ensure that disclosures made in the 

offer document or any other document as may be specified by the Board contain material, true, 

correct and adequate disclosures and are in accordance with these regulations and guidelines 

or circulars issued thereunder. 

 
58 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
59 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
60 Omitted “the draft and final”by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 

w.e.f. 30.11.2016.  
61 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
62 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

20 

 

(12) The manager shall declare distributions to the unit holders in accordance with the sub-

regulation (16) of regulation 18. 

(13) The manager shall ensure adequate and timely redressal of all unit holders' grievances 

pertaining to activities of the REIT. 

(14) The  manager shall ensure that the disclosures to the unit holders, Board, trustees and 

designated stock exchange are adequate, timely and in accordance with these regulations and 

guidelines or circulars issued thereunder. 

(15) The manager shall provide to the Board and to the designated stock exchanges any such 

information as may be sought by the Board or the designated stock exchange pertaining to the 

activities of the REIT. 

(16) The manager shall ensure that adequate controls are in place to ensure segregation of its 

activity as manager of the REIT from its other activities. 

(17) The manager or its associates shall not obtain any commission or rebate or any other 

remuneration, by whatever name called, arising out of transactions pertaining to the REIT other 

than as specified in the offer document or any other document as may be specified by the Board 

for the purpose of issue of units. 

(18) The manager shall submit to the trustee,- 

(a) quarterly reports on the activities of the REIT including receipts for all funds 

received by it and for all payments made, position on compliance with these 

regulations, specifically including compliance with regulations 18,19 and 20, 

performance report, status of development of under-construction properties, within 

thirty days of end of such quarter;  

(b) valuation reports as required under these regulations within fifteen days of the 

receipt of the valuation report from the valuer; 

(c) decision to acquire or sell or develop any property or expand existing completed 

properties along with rationale for the same; 

(d) details of any action which requires approval from the unit holders as required 

under the regulations; 



 

21 

 

(e) details of any other material fact including change of its directors, any legal 

proceedings that may have a significant bearing on the activity of the REIT within 

seven working days of such action. 

(19) In case the manager fails to timely submit to the trustee information or reports as specified 

under sub-regulation (18) of this regulation or sub-regulation (8) of regulation 9, the trustee 

shall intimate the same to the Board and the Board may take action, as it deems fit. 

(20) The manager shall coordinate with trustee, as may be necessary, with respect to operations 

of the REIT. 

(21) The manager shall ensure that the valuation of the REIT assets is done by the valuer(s) in 

accordance with regulation 21. 

(22) The manager shall ensure that computation of NAV of the REIT is based on the valuation 

done by the valuer and is declared no later than fifteen days from the date of valuation 63[ to 

the stock exchange(s)] and such computation shall be done and declared not less than once 

every six months.  

(23) The manager shall ensure that the audit of accounts of the REIT by the auditor is done not 

less than 64[ once in a year] and such report is submitted to the designated stock exchange 

within 65[sixty] days of end of such financial year ending March 31st 66[***]. 

(24) The manager may appoint a custodian in order to provide such custodial services as may 

be authorised by the trustees and oversee activities of such custodian. 

(25) The manager shall place, before its board of directors in the case of a company or the 

governing board in case of an LLP, a report on activity and performance of the REIT every 

three months. 

(26) The manager shall designate an employee or director as the compliance officer for 

monitoring of compliance with these regulations and circulars issued thereunder and intimating 

the Board in case of any violation. 

 
63 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
64 Substituted for “twice annually”by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
65 Substituted for “forty five” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 

w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
66 Omitted “and half-year ending on September 30th”by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.  



 

22 

 

(27) The manager shall convene meetings of the unit holders in accordance with regulation 22 

and maintain records pertaining to the meetings in accordance with regulation 26. 

(28) The manager shall ensure the compliance with laws, as may be applicable, of the State or 

the local body with respect to the activity of the REIT including local building laws. 

(29) The manager shall ensure that all activities of management of assets of the REIT and 

activities of the intermediaries or agents or service providers appointed by the manager are in 

accordance with these regulations and circulars issued thereunder. 

 

Rights and responsibilities of sponsor(s)67[and sponsor group(s)]. 

11. (1) The sponsor(s) 68[and sponsor group(s)] shall set up the REIT and appoint the trustee 

of the REIT. 

(2) The sponsor(s) 69[and sponsor group(s)] shall transfer or undertake to transfer, subject to a 

binding agreement and adequate disclosures in the initial offer 70[document], 71[their] entire 

shareholding or interest 72[and rights] in the 73[holdco and/or] SPV or entire ownership of the 

real estate assets to the REIT prior to allotment of units of the REIT to the applicants: 

Provided that this shall not apply to the extent of any mandatory holding of shares or interest 

74[and rights] in the 75[holdco and/or] SPV by the sponsor(s) 76[and sponsor group(s)] as 

required 77[under] any Act or regulations or circulars or guidelines of government or regulatory 

authority as specified from time to time. 

(3) With respect to holding of units in the REIT, 78[***]- 

 
67 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
68 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
69 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
70 Word ‘focument’ corrected to read as ‘document’ by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate 

Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
71 Substituted for “its” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016 
72 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
73 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
74 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
75 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
76 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
77 Inserted ibid. 
78 Omitted“the sponsor(s) shall,”  by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 

w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 



 

23 

 

(a) 79[the sponsor(s) and sponsor group(s) shall collectively] hold a minimum of twenty 

five percent. of the total units of the REIT after initial offer on a post-issue basis: 

Provided that the minimum sponsor80[(s) and sponsor group(s)] holding specified 

in this clause shall be held for a period of atleast three years from the date of 

listing of such units: 

Provided further that any holding of the sponsor 81[(s) and sponsor group(s)] 

exceeding the minimum holding as specified in this clause, shall be held for a 

period of atleast one year from the date of listing of such units; 

(b) 82[the sponsor(s) and sponsor group(s)] together hold not less than fifteen per cent. 

of the outstanding units of the listed REIT at all times; 

 (c) 83[each of the sponsor] individually 84[***] 85[shall] hold not less than five per cent. 

of the outstanding units of the listed REIT at all times. 

 (4) If the sponsor(s) 86[and sponsor group(s)] propose(s) to sell its units below the limit 

specified in clauses (b) or (c) of sub-regulation (3) of this regulation- 

(a) such units shall be sold only after a period of three years from the date of listing 

of the units;  

(b) prior to sale of such units, the sponsor(s) 87[ and sponsor group(s)] shall 

arrange for another person(s) or entity(ies) to act as the re-designated 

sponsor(s) where the re-designated sponsor  shall satisfy the eligibility norms 

for the sponsor as specified under 88[regulation 4]:  

Provided that such units may also be sold to an existing sponsor; 

(c) The 89[***]proposed redesignated sponsor shall obtain approval from the unit 

holders or  provide option to exit to the unit holders in accordance with guidelines 

as may be specified:  

 
79 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
80 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
81 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
82 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
83 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
84 Omitted“,”  by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
85 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
86 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
87 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
88 Substituted for the word and number “regulation 3” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
89 Omitted “sponsor/”by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016.  



 

24 

 

Provided that this clause shall not apply where the units are proposed to be sold to 

an existing sponsor90[or member of sponsor group]. 

(5) If re-designated sponsor(s) propose(s) to sell its units to any another person, conditions 

specified under clauses (b), and (c) of sub-regulation (4) shall be complied with.  

 

Rights and responsibilities of the valuer. 

12. The valuer(s) shall comply with the following conditions at all times- 

(a) The valuer(s) shall ensure that the valuation of the REIT assets is impartial, true and 

fair and is in accordance with regulation 21; 

(b) The valuer(s)  shall ensure adequate and robust internal controls to ensure the 

integrity of its valuation reports; 

(c) The valuer(s)  shall ensure that it has sufficient key personnel with adequate 

experience and qualification to perform property valuations at all times;  

(d) The valuer(s) shall ensure that it has sufficient financial resources to enable it to 

conduct its business effectively and meet its liabilities; 

(e) The valuer(s) and any of its employees involved in valuing of the assets of the REIT, 

shall not,- 

(i) invest in units of the REIT or in the assets being valued; and  

(ii) sell the assets or units of REITs held prior to being appointed as the valuer,  

till the time such person is designated as valuer of such REIT and not less than six 

months after ceasing to be valuer of the REIT; 

(f) The valuer(s)  shall conduct the valuation of the REIT assets with transparency and 

fairness and shall render, at all times, high standards of service, exercise due 

diligence, ensure proper care and exercise independent professional judgment; 

(g) The valuer(s)  shall act with independence, objectivity and impartiality in 

performing the valuation; 

 
90 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

25 

 

(h) The valuer(s) shall discharge its duties towards the REIT in an efficient and 

competent manner, utilizing his knowledge, skills and experience in best possible 

way to complete given assignment; 

(i) The valuer(s) shall not accept remuneration, in any form, for performing a valuation 

of the REIT assets from any person other than the REIT or its authorized 

representative; 

(j) The valuer(s) shall before accepting any assignment, 91[from any related party to 

the REIT, shall] disclose to the REIT any direct or indirect consideration which the 

valuer may have in respect of such assignment;  

(k) The valuer shall disclose to the trustee, any pending business transactions, contracts 

under negotiation and other arrangements with the manager or any other party 

whom the REIT is contracting with and any other factors that may interfere with 

the valuer’s ability to give an independent and professional valuation of the 

property; 

(l) The valuer(s) shall not make false, misleading or exaggerated claims in order to 

secure assignments; 

(m) The valuer(s) shall not provide misleading valuation, either by providing incorrect 

information or by withholding relevant information; 

(n) The valuer(s) shall not accept an assignment that includes reporting of the outcome 

based on predetermined opinions and conclusions required by the REIT; 

(o) The valuer(s) shall, prior to performing a valuation, acquaint itself  with all laws or 

regulations relevant to such valuation. 

 

Rights and responsibilities of the auditor. 

13. (1) The auditor shall conduct audit of the accounts of the REIT and prepare the audit report 

based on the accounts examined by him and after taking into account the relevant accounting 

and auditing standards, as may be specified by the Board. 

 
91 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

26 

 

(2) The auditor shall, to the best of his information and knowledge, ensure that the accounts 

and financial statements, including profit or loss and cash flow for the period and such other 

matters as may be specified, give a true and fair view of the state of the affairs. 

(3) The auditor shall have a right of access at all times to the books of accounts and vouchers 

pertaining to activities of the REIT. 

(4) The auditor shall have a right to require such information and explanation pertaining to 

activities of the REIT as he may consider necessary for the performance of his duties as auditor 

from the employees of REIT or parties to the REIT or 92[holdco or] SPV or any other person 

in possession of such information. 

 

CHAPTER IV 

ISSUE AND LISTING OF UNITS 

Issue and allotment of units. 

14. (1) A REIT shall make an initial offer of its units by way of public issue only. 

(2) No initial offer of units by the REIT shall be made unless,- 

(a) the REIT is registered with the Board under these regulations; 

(b) the value of 93[the REIT assets] is not less than five hundred crore rupees; 

Explanation.- Such value shall mean the value of the specific portion of the holding 

of REIT in the underlying assets or 94[] SPVs; 

95[(ba) the minimum number of unit holders other than sponsor(s), its related 

parties and its associates  forming part of public shall be not less than two hundred;] 

(c) 96[***] 

 
92 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
93 Substituted for “all the assets owned by REIT” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate 

Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
94 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
95 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
96 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 

Prior to its omission, sub- clause (c) read as under :  

 “the units proposed to be offered to the public is not less than twenty five per cent. of the total of the 

outstanding units of the REIT and the units being offered by way of the offer document: 

Provided that for initial offer of value greater than five hundred crore rupees, if prior to the initial offer units of 

the REIT are held by the public, the units proposed to be offered to the public shall be calculated after reducing 

such existing units for satisfying the aforesaid percentage requirement;” 



 

27 

 

(d) the offer size is not less than two hundred and fifty crore rupees: 

Provided that the requirement of ownership of assets under clause (b) and size of REIT 

under clause (d) may be complied 97[at any point of time before allotment of units in 

accordance with offer document/placement memorandum] subject to a binding agreement 

with the relevant party(ies) that 98[such] requirements shall be fulfilled prior to 99[such] 

allotment of units100[and], a declaration to the Board and 101[to] the designated stock 

exchanges to that effect and adequate disclosures in this regard in the 102[***] offer 

document. 

103[(2A) For an REIT raising funds through an initial offer, the units proposed to be offered to 

the public through such initial offer  

(a) shall be not less than twenty five per cent. of the total of the outstanding units 

of the REIT and the units being offered by way of the offer document, if the post 

issue capital of the REIT calculated at offer price is less than rupees one thousand 

six hundred crore: 

Provided that the requirement at sub-clause (a) shall be complied along with the 

requirement under Regulation 14 (2)(d) of the REIT Regulations. 

(b) shall be of the value of at least Rs 400 crore, if the post issue capital of the REIT 

calculated at offer price is equal to or more than rupees one thousand six hundred 

crore and less than rupees four thousand crore; 

(c) shall be not less than ten per cent. of the total of the outstanding units of the 

REIT and the units being offered by way of the offer document, if the post issue 

capital of the REIT calculated at offer price is equal to or more than rupees four 

thousand crore: 

Provided that any units offered to sponsor or the manager or their related parties or their 

associates shall not be counted towards units offered to the public: 

 
97 Substituted for “with after initial offer” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
98 Substituted for “the” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016 
99 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
100 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
101 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
102 Omitted “initial” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016 
103 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

28 

 

Provided further that any listed REIT which has public holding below twenty five per cent 

on account of sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) above, such REIT shall increase its public holding 

to at least twenty five per cent, within a period of three years from the date of listing 

pursuant to initial offer.] 

(3) Any subsequent issue of units by the REIT may be by way of follow-on offer, preferential 

allotment, qualified institutional placement, rights issue, bonus issue, offer for sale or any other 

mechanism and in the manner as may be specified by the Board. 

(4) REIT, through the 104[merchant banker], shall file a draft offer document 105[along with the 

fee as specified in Schedule II,] with the designated stock exchange(s) and the Board, not less 

than 106[thirty] working days before filing the  107[***] offer document with the designated 

stock exchange 108[and the Board]. 

(5) The draft offer document filed with the Board shall be made public, for comments, if any, 

109[***] by hosting it on the websites of the Board, designated stock exchanges and merchant 

bankers associated with the issue 110[, for a period of not less than twenty one days]. 

(6) The 111[draft offer document and/ or offer document] shall be accompanied by a due 

diligence certificate signed by the 112[***] lead merchant banker.  

(7) The Board may communicate its comments to the lead merchant banker and, in the interest 

of investors, may require the lead merchant banker to carry out such modifications in the draft 

offer document as it deems fit.  

(8) The lead merchant banker shall ensure that all comments received from the Board on the 

draft offer document are suitably taken into account prior to the filing of the offer document 

with the designated stock exchanges. 

 
104 Substituted for “manager” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 

w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
105 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
106 Substituted for “twenty one” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 

w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
107 Omitted “final” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016 
108 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
109 Omitted “to be submitted to the Board, within a period of at least ten days,” by the SEBI (Real Estate 

Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
110 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
111 Substituted for “draft and final offer document” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
112 Omitted “Manager and” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016 



 

29 

 

(9) In case no 113[observations] are 114[issued] by the Board 115[on] the draft offer document 

within twenty one working days from the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the lead 

merchant bankers or manager, the REIT may 116[file] the 117[***] offer document or follow-on 

offer document 118[with the Board and the exchange(s)]: 

119[***] 

 (10) The 120[***] offer document shall be filed with the designated stock exchanges and the 

Board not less than five working days before opening of the offer 121[***]. 

(11) The initial offer or follow-on offer 122[or rights issue] shall be made by the REIT within a 

period of not more than 123[one year] from the date of 124[***] issuance of observations by the 

Board 125[***]:  

Provided that if the initial offer or follow-on offer 126[or rights issue] is not made within the 

specified time period, a fresh 127[draft] offer document shall be filed.  

 
113 Substituted for “modifications” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
114 Substituted for “suggested” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 

w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
115 Substituted for “in” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016 
116 Substituted for “issue” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016 
117 Omitted “final” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016 
118 Substituted for “to the public” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 

w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
119 Omitted “Provided that prior to issue of such final offer document, it shall be filed with the designated stock 

exchanges and with the Board.” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 

w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
120 Omitted “final” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016 
121 Omitted “and such filing with the Board shall be accompanied by filing fees as specified under Schedule II” 

by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
122 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
123 Substituted for “six months” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 

w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
124 Omitted “last” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016 
125 Omitted “, if any or if no observations have been issued by the Board, within a period of not more than six 

months from the date of filing of offer document with the designated stock exchanges” by the SEBI (Real Estate 

Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
126 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
127 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

30 

 

128[Provided further that the REIT shall not be required to file draft offer  document  with  the 

Board  in  case  of  a  fast  track  rights  issue, subject to the fulfillment of the conditions as 

specified by the Board from time to time.] 

 (12) The REIT may invite for subscriptions and allot units to any person, whether resident or 

foreign: 

Provided that in case of foreign investors, such investment shall be subject to guidelines as may 

be specified by Reserve Bank of India and the government from time to time. 

(13) The application for subscription shall be accompanied by a statement containing the 

abridged version of the offer document, detailing the risk factors and summary of the terms of 

issue. 

129[(14) The minimum subscription from any investor in initial and/or public offer shall be 

rupees fifty thousand.] 

(15) Initial offer and follow-on offer shall not be open for subscription for a period of more 

than thirty days. 

(16) In case of over-subscriptions, the REIT shall allot units to the applicants on a proportionate 

basis rounded off to the nearest integer subject to minimum subscription amount per subscriber 

as specified in sub-regulation (14). 

(17) The REIT shall allot units or refund application money, as the case may be, within twelve 

working days from the date of closing of the issue. 

(18) The REIT shall issue units only in dematerialized form to all the applicants. 

(19) The price of REIT units issued by way of public issue shall be determined through the 

book building process or any other process in accordance with the circulars or guidelines issued 

by the Board and in the manner as may be specified by the Board. 

(20) The REIT shall refund money, - 

 
128 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 02.03.2020 
129 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation 14 read as follows: 

“(14) Under both the initial offer and follow-on public offer, the REIT shall not accept subscription of an amount 

less than two lakh rupees from an applicant.” 



 

31 

 

(a) to all applicants in case it fails to collect subscription amount of exceeding 

130[ninety] per cent. of the 131[fresh] issue size as specified in the 132[***] offer 

document 133[***]; 

(b) to applicants to the extent of oversubscription in case the moneys received is in 

excess of the extent of over-subscription as specified in the 134[***] offer 

document: 

Provided that right to retain such over subscription cannot exceed twenty five per 

cent. of the issue size;  

135[Provided further, that the offer document shall contain adequate disclosures 

towards the utilisation of such oversubscription proceeds, if any, and such proceeds 

retained on account of oversubscription shall not be utilised towards general 

purposes.] 

(c) to all applicants in case the number of subscribers to the initial offer forming part 

of the public is less than two hundred. 

(21) If the manager fails to allot, or list the units, or refund the money within the specified time, 

then the manager shall pay interest to the unit holders at fifteen per cent. per annum, till such 

allotment/ listing/refund and such interest shall not be recovered in the form of fees or any 

other form payable to the manager by the REIT. 

(22) Units may be offered for sale to public,- 

(a) if such units have been held by the existing unitholders for a period of at least one 

year prior to the filing of draft offer document with the Board: 

Provided that the holding period for the equity shares 136[, compulsorily convertible 

securities (from the date such securities are fully paid-up)] or partnership interest 

in the 137[holdco and/or] SPV against which such units have been received shall be 

 
130 Substituted for “seventy five” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 

w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
131 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
132 Omitted “initial” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016 
133 Omitted “or follow-on offer document” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
134 Omitted “initial offer document or follow-on” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
135 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
136 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
137 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

32 

 

considered for the purpose of calculation of one year period referred in this sub-

regulation: 

138[Provided further that the compulsorily convertible securities, whose holding 

period has been included for the purpose of calculation for offer for sale, shall be 

converted to equity shares of the holdco or SPV, prior to filing of offer document.] 

(b) subject to other circulars or guidelines as may be specified by the Board in this 

regard. 

139[(22A) The amount for general purposes, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft 

offer document filed with the Board, shall not exceed Ten per cent of the amount raised by the 

REIT by issuance of units.] 

(23) If the REIT fails to make its initial offer within three years from the date of registration 

with the Board, it shall surrender its certificate of registration to the Board and cease to operate 

as a REIT: 

Provided that the Board, if it deems fit, may extend the period by another one year: 

Provided further that the REIT may later re-apply for registration, if it so desires. 

(24) The Board may specify by issue of guidelines or circulars any other requirements, as it 

deems fit, pertaining to issue and allotment of units by a REIT. 

 

Offer document and advertisements.  

15. (1) The Offer document of the REIT shall contain material, true, correct and adequate 

disclosures to enable the investors to make an informed decision.  

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the offer document shall- 

(a) include all information as specified in  Schedule III to these regulations or as specified 

in any circulars or guidelines issued by the Board in this regard;  

(b) not be misleading and not contain any untrue statements or mis-statements; 

(c) not provide for any guaranteed returns to the investors;  

(d) include such other disclosures as may be specified by the Board. 

 
138 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
139 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

33 

 

(3) Any advertisement material relating to any issue of units of the REIT shall not be 

misleading and shall not contain anything extraneous to the contents of the offer document. 

(4) If an advertisement contains positive highlights, it shall also contain risk factors with 

equal importance in all aspects including print size. 

(5) The advertisements shall be in accordance with the offer document and any circulars or 

guidelines as may be specified by the Board in this regard. 

 

Listing and trading of units. 

16. (1) After the initial offer it shall be mandatory for all units of REITs to be listed on a 

recognized stock exchange having nationwide trading terminals within a period of twelve 

working days from the date of closure of the offer. 

(2) The listing of the units of the REIT shall be in accordance with the listing agreement entered 

into between the REIT and the designated stock exchange.  

140[(2A) In the event of non-receipt of listing permission from the stock exchange(s) or 

withdrawal of Observation Letter issued by the Board, wherever applicable, the units shall not 

be eligible for listing and the REIT shall be liable to refund the subscription monies, if any, to 

the respective allottees immediately alongwith interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum 

from the date of allotment.] 

(3) The units of the REIT listed in recognized stock exchanges shall be traded, cleared and 

settled in accordance with the bye-laws of concerned stock exchanges and such conditions as 

may be specified by the Board. 

(4) Trading lot for the purpose of trading of units of the REIT shall 141[consist of 100 units]. 

(5)  The REIT shall redeem units only by way of a buy-back or at the time of delisting of units. 

(6) The units of REIT shall be remain listed on the designated stock exchange unless delisted 

under regulation 17.   

 
140 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
141 Substituted for “be one lakh rupees” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment 

Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019. 



 

34 

 

(7) The minimum public holding for the units of the listed REIT shall be 142[ in accordance 

with the sub-regulation (2A) of Regulation 14], failing which action may be taken as may be 

specified by the Board and by the designated stock exchange including delisting of units under 

regulation 17: 

Provided that in case of breach of the conditions specified in this sub-regulation, the trustee 

may provide a period of six months to the manager to rectify the same, failing which the 

manager shall apply for delisting under Regulation 17.  

(8)  Any person other than the sponsor(s) holding units of the REIT prior to initial offer shall 

hold the units for a period of not less than one year from the date of listing of the units subject 

to circulars or guidelines as may be specified by the Board.  

(9)  The Board and designated stock exchanges may specify any other requirements pertaining 

to listing and trading of units of the REIT by issuance of guidelines or circulars.  

 

Delisting of units. 

17. (1) The manager shall apply for delisting of units of the REIT to the Board and the 

designated stock exchanges if,- 

(a) the public holding falls below the specified limit under sub-regulation (7) of regulation 

16; 

(b) 143[***] 

(c) if there are no projects or assets  remaining under the REIT for a period exceeding six 

months and REIT does not propose to invest in any project in future: 

Provided that, the period may be extended by further six months, with the approval of 

unit holders in the manner as specified in regulation 22; 

(d) the Board or the designated stock exchanges require such delisting for violation of the 

listing agreement or these regulations or the Act;  

 
142 Substituted for “twenty five per cent. the total number of outstanding units at all times, and the number of 

unit holders of the REIT forming part of the public shall be two hundred at all times” by the SEBI (Real Estate 

Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
143 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 

Prior to its omission, sub- clause (b) read as under :  

“the number of unit holders of the REIT forming part of the public falls below two hundred;” 



 

35 

 

(e) the sponsor(s) or trustee requests such delisting and such request has been approved by 

unit holders in accordance with sub-regulation (6) of regulation 22; 

(f) unit holders apply for such delisting in accordance with regulation 22; 

(g) the Board or the designated stock exchanges require such delisting for violation of the 

listing agreement, these regulations or the Act or in the interest of the unit holders. 

(2)  The Board and the designated stock exchanges may consider such application for approval 

or rejection as may be appropriate in the interest of the unit holders. 

 (3)  The Board, instead of requiring delisting of the units, if it deems fit,  may provide 

additional time to the REIT or parties to the REIT to comply with regulations. 

(4)  The Board may reject the application for delisting and take any other action, as it deems 

fit, under these regulations or the Act for violation of the listing agreement or these regulations 

or the Act. 

(5)  The procedure for delisting of units of REIT including provision of exit option to the unit 

holders shall be in accordance with the listing agreement and in accordance with procedure as 

may be specified by the Board and by the designated stock exchanges from time to time. 

(6)  The Board may require the REIT to wind up and sell its assets in order to redeem units of 

the unit holders for the purpose of delisting of units and the Board may through circulars or 

guidelines specify the manner of such winding up or sale. 

(7)  After delisting of its units, the REIT shall surrender its certificate of registration to the 

Board and shall no longer undertake activity of a REIT: 

Provided that the REIT and parties to the REIT shall continue to be liable for all their acts of 

omissions and commissions with respect to activities of the REIT notwithstanding such 

surrender. 

CHAPTER V 

INVESTMENT CONDITIONS, RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS, 

BORROWING AND VALUATION OF ASSETS  

Investment conditions and distribution policy. 



 

36 

 

18. (1) The Investment by a REIT shall only be in 144[holdco and/or] SPVs or properties or 

securities or TDR in India in accordance with these regulations and in accordance with the 

investment strategy as detailed in the offer document as may be amended subsequently. 

(2) The REIT shall not invest in vacant land or agricultural land or mortgages other than 

mortgage backed securities: 

Provided that this shall not apply to any land which is contiguous and extension of an existing 

project being implemented in stages. 

(3) The REIT may invest in properties through SPVs subject to the following,- 

(a) no other shareholder or partner of the SPV shall 145[exercise] any rights that 

prevents the REIT from complying with the provisions of these regulations 146[and 

an agreement 147[has been] entered into with such shareholders or partners to that 

effect prior to investment in the SPV]: 

148[Provided that the shareholders’ agreement or partnership agreement shall 

provide for an  appropriate  mechanism  for  resolution  of  disputes  between  the  

REIT  and  the other shareholders or partners in the SPV: 

Provided further that the provisions of these regulations shall prevail in case of 

inconsistencies between such agreement(s) and the obligations cast upon a REIT 

under these regulations.] 

149[(b) the manager, in consultation with the trustee, shall appoint atleast such 

number of nominees on the board of directors or the governing board of such SPVs, 

as applicable, which are in proportion to the shareholding or holding interest of the 

REIT in the SPV;] 

 
144 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
145 Substituted for the word “have” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
146 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
147 Substituted for the words “shall be” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment 
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
148 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
149 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. Prior to the substitution, the clause read as: 

“(b) the manager, in consultation with the trustee, shall appoint the majority of the Board of directors or governing 

board of such SPVs[, as applicable;” 



 

37 

 

(c) the manager shall ensure that in every meeting including annual general meeting 

of the SPV, the voting of the REIT is exercised 150[***]. 

151[(3A) The REIT may invest in properties through holdco subject 152[to] the following,- 

(a) the ultimate holding interest of the REIT in the underlying SPV(s) is not less 

than twenty six per cent; 

(b) no other shareholder or partner of the holdco or the SPV(s) shall 153[exercise] 

any rights that prevent the REIT, the holdco or the SPV(s) from complying with 

the provisions of these regulations and an agreement 154[has been] entered into with 

such shareholders or partners to that effect prior to investment in the holdco and/or 

SPVs: 

155[Provided that the shareholders’ agreement or partnership agreement shall 

provide for an  appropriate  mechanism  for  resolution  of  disputes  between  the  

REIT  and  the other shareholders or partners in the holdco and/or SPV;  

Provided further that the provisions of these regulations shall prevail in case of 

inconsistencies between such agreement(s) and the obligations cast upon a REIT 

under these regulations.] 

156[(c)  the manager, in consultation with the Trustee, shall appoint atleast such 

number of nominees on the board of directors or the governing board of the holdco 

and/or the SPV, which are in proportion to the shareholding or holding interest of 

the REIT/holdco in the SPV;] 

(d) the manager shall ensure that in every meeting including annual general 

meeting of the holdco and/or SPV(s), the voting of the REIT is exercised;] 

 
150 Omitted “subject to provisions of Companies Act, 2013” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
151 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
152 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
153 Substituted for the word “have” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.  
154 Substituted ibid for the words “shall be”. 
155 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
156 Substituted ibid. Prior to the substitution, the clause read as:  

“(c) the manager, in consultation with the Trustee, shall appoints the majority of the Board of directors or 

governing board of the holdco and/or SPV(s);” 



 

38 

 

(4) Not less than eighty per cent. of value of the REIT assets shall be invested 157[***] in 

completed and rent 158[and/or income] generating properties subject to the following,- 

(a) if the investment has been made through a 159[holdco and/or] SPV, whether by way 

of equity or debt or equity linked instruments or partnership interest, only the 

portion of direct investments in properties by such 160[ holdco and/or] SPVs shall 

be considered under this sub-regulation and the remaining portion shall be included 

under sub-regulation (5);  

(b) if any project is implemented in stages, the part of the project which is completed 

and 161[rent and/or income generating] shall be considered under this sub-

regulation and the remaining portion including any contiguous land as specified 

under proviso to sub-regulation (2) shall be included under clause (a) of  sub-

regulation (5). 

(5) Not more than twenty per cent. of value of the REIT assets shall be invested 162[***] in 

assets other than as provided in sub-regulation (4) and such other investment shall only be in,-   

(a) properties, 163[whether directly or through a company or LLP,] 164[***] which 

are: 

(i) under-construction properties which shall be held by the REIT for not 

less than three years after completion; 

(ii) under-construction properties which are a part of the existing income 

generating properties owned by the REIT which shall be held by the REIT 

for not less than three years after completion; 

(iii) completed and not rent generating properties  which shall be held by the 

REIT for not less than three years from date of purchase; 

 
157 Omitted “proportionate to the holding of the REITs” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
158 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
159 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
160 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
161 Substituted for the words “rent-generating” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
162 Omitted “proportionate to the holding of the REITs” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
163 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
164 Omitted “in which not more than ten per cent. of value of the REIT assets shall be invested,” by the SEBI 

(Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

39 

 

(b) listed or unlisted debt of companies or body corporate in real estate sector: 

Provided that this shall not include any investment made in debt of the 

165[holdco and/or SPVs]; 

(c) mortgage backed securities;  

(d) equity shares of companies 166[which are] listed on a recognized stock exchange 

in India which derive not less than seventy five per cent. of their operating 

income from real estate activity as per the audited accounts of the previous 

financial year; 

167[(da) unlisted equity shares of companies which derive not less than seventy five 

per cent. of their operating income from real estate activity as per the audited 

accounts of the previous financial year: 

Provided that the investments, made through unlisted equity shares of a 

company, in under construction properties and/or completed and not rent 

generating properties, shall be in compliance with clause (a) of this sub-

regulation.] 

(e) government securities; 

(f) unutilized FSI of a project where it has already made investment; 

(g) TDR acquired for the purpose of utilization with respect to a project where it 

has already made investment; 

(h) money market instruments or cash equivalents. 

168[(5A) The investment conditions as specified at sub-regulation (4) and (5) of regulation 18 

shall be complied at the time of Offer document and thereafter.] 

 
165 Substituted for “SPV” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016 
166 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
167 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
168 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

40 

 

(6) Not less than 169[fifty one] per cent. of the 170[consolidated] revenues of the REIT 171[, 

holdco] and the SPV, other than gains arising from disposal of properties, shall be, at all times, 

from rental, leasing and letting real estate assets or any other income incidental to the leasing 

of such assets.  

 

172[***] 

173[***] 

(9) Conditions specified in sub-regulations (4), (5), (6), (7) and (8) shall  be monitored on a 

half-yearly basis and at the time of acquisition of an asset:  

Provided that if such conditions are breached on account of market movements of the price of 

the underlying assets or securities or change in tenants or  expiry of lease or sale of properties, 

the manager shall inform the same to the trustee and ensure that the conditions as specified in 

this regulation are satisfied within six months of such breach:  

Provided further that the period may be extended by another six months subject to approval 

from investors in accordance with regulation 22. 

(10) A REIT shall hold any completed and rent generating property, whether directly or through 

174[holdco or] SPV, for a period of not less than three years from the date of purchase of such 

property by the REIT or 175[holdco or] SPV. 

(11) For any sale of property, whether by the REIT or 176[holdco or] the SPV or for sale of 

shares or interest in the SPV by the 177[holdco or] REIT exceeding ten per cent. of the value of 

 
169 Substituted for “seventy five” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 

w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
170 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
171 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
172 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. Prior to omission, the clause read as:  

“(7) Not less than seventy five per cent. of value of the REIT assets proportionately on a consolidated basis shall 

be rent generating.” 

 
173 Omitted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017. Prior 
to the omission, the sub-regulation read as follows: 

“(8) A REIT shall hold at least two projects, directly or through 173[holdco and/or] SPV, with not more than sixty 

per cent. of the value of the assets, proportionately on a consolidated basis, in one project.” 
174 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
175 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
176 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
177 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

41 

 

REIT assets in a financial year, the manager shall obtain approval from the unit holders in 

accordance with regulation 22.  

(12) A REIT shall not invest in units of other REITs. 

(13) A REIT shall not undertake lending to any person 178[other than the holding 

company/special purpose vehicle(s) in which the REIT has invested in, subject to disclosures 

specified in Schedule IV]: 

Provided that investment in debt securities shall not be considered as lending. 

(14) With respect to investment in leasehold properties, the manager shall consider the 

remaining term of the lease, the objectives of the REIT, the lease profile of the REIT’s existing 

real estate assets and any other factors as may be relevant, prior to making such investment. 

(15) In case of any co-investment with any person(s) in any transaction,-  

(a) the investment by the other person(s) shall not be at terms more favourable than 

those to the REIT; 

(b) the investment shall not provide any rights to the person(s) which shall prevent the 

REIT from complying with the provisions of these regulations; 

(c) the agreement with such person(s) shall include the minimum percentage of 

distributable cash flows that will be distributed and entitlement of the REIT to 

receive not less than pro rata distributions and mode for resolution of any disputes 

between the REIT and the other person(s). 

(16) With respect to distributions made by the REIT and the 179[holdco and/or] SPV,- 

(a) not less than ninety per cent. of net distributable cash flows of the SPV shall be 

distributed to the REIT 180[/holdco] in proportion of its holding in the SPV subject 

to applicable provisions in the Companies Act, 2013 or the Limited Liability 

Partnership Act, 2008; 

181[(aa) with regard to distribution of net distributable cash flows by the holdco to 

the REIT, subject to applicable provisions in the Companies Act, 2013 or the Limited 

Liability Partnership Act, 2008, the following shall be complied: 

 
178 Inserted by theSEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
179 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
180 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
181 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

42 

 

(i) with respect to the cash flows received by the holdco from underlying SPVs, 

100% of such cash flows received by the holdco shall be distributed to the REIT; 

and  

(ii) with respect to the cash flows generated by the holdco on its own, not less 

than 90% of such net distributable cash flows shall be distributed by the holdco 

to the REIT;] 

(b) not less than ninety per cent. of net distributable cash flows of the REIT shall be 

distributed to the unit holders; 

(c) such distributions shall be declared and made not less than once every six months in 

every financial year and shall be made not later than fifteen days from the date of 

such declaration; 

(d) if any property is sold by the REIT or 182[holdco or SPV or if the equity shares or 

interest in the holdco/SPV are sold by the REIT, then],- 

(i) if the REIT proposes to reinvest sale proceeds, if any, into another 

property, it shall not be required to distribute any sale proceeds from 

such sale to the unit holders; 183[***] 

(ii) if the REIT 184[***] proposes not to invest the sales proceeds made into 

any other property, 185[within a period of 1 year,] it shall be required to 

distribute not less than ninety per cent. of the sales proceeds in accordance 

with clauses (a) 186[, (b), (c) and (d) of sub-regulation 16]; 

(e) if the distributions are not made within fifteen days of declaration, then the manager 

shall be liable to  pay interest to the unit holders at the rate of fifteen per cent. per 

annum till the distribution is made and such interest shall not be recovered in the 

form of fees or any other form payable to the manager by the REIT. 

(17) No schemes shall be launched under the REIT.  

 
182 Substituted for “SPV” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016 
183 Omitted “and if the SPV proposes to reinvest sale proceeds, if any, into another property, it shall not be 
required to distribute any sale proceeds from such sale to the REIT;” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment 

Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
184 Omitted “or SPV” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016 
185 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
186 Substituted for “and (b)” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 

w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

43 

 

(18) The Board may specify any additional conditions for investments by the REIT as it deems 

fit. 

 

Related party transactions. 

19. (1) All related party transactions shall be on an arms-length basis, in the best interest of the 

unit holders, consistent with the strategy and investment objectives of the REIT and shall be 

disclosed to the designated stock exchange and unit holders periodically in accordance with 

the listing agreement and these regulations. 

(2) A REIT, subject to the conditions specified hereunder, may,-  

(a)  acquire assets from related parties;  

(b) sell assets or securities to related parties; 

(c) lease assets to related parties;  

(d) lease assets from related parties;  

(e) invest in securities issued by related parties;  

(f) borrow from related parties.  

(3) With respect to purchase or sale of properties 187[***] after initial offer,- 

(a) two valuation reports from two different valuers, independent of each other, shall 

be obtained; 

(b) such valuers shall undertake a full valuation of the assets proposed to be purchased 

or sold as specified under regulation 21; 

(c) Transactions for purchase of such assets shall be at a price not greater than, and 

transactions for sale of such assets shall be at a price not lesser than, 188[one 

hundred ten percent and ninety percent of the] average of the two independent 

valuations 189[, respectively].  

(4) In case of any related party transactions entered into prior to making the initial offer,- 

 
187 Omitted “both prior to and” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 

w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
188 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
189 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

44 

 

(a) adequate disclosures to that effect shall be made in the initial offer document 

including a consolidated full valuation report of all such assets 190[***]; 

(b) the REIT shall enter into proper and valid agreements with such related parties 

at the price or  interest rate or rental value mentioned in the initial offer 

document;  

(c) If the transactions are conditional upon the REIT receiving a minimum amount 

of subscription, adequate disclosures shall be made in the offer document and 

the agreements to that effect. 

(5) In case of any related party transactions entered into after the initial offer,- 

(a) adequate disclosures shall be made to the unit holders and to the designated 

stock exchanges; 

(b) in case,- 

(i) the total value of all the related party transactions, in a financial year, 

pertaining to acquisition or sale of properties 191[, whether directly or 

through holdco and/or SPVs,] or investments into securities exceeds ten 

per cent. of the value of REIT; or 

(ii) the value of the funds borrowed from related parties, in a financial year, 

exceeds ten per cent. of the total consolidated borrowings of the REIT           

192[, holdco and/or SPVs]; 

approval from the unit holders shall be obtained prior to entering into any such 

subsequent transaction with any related party; 

(c) for the purpose of obtaining approval for such transactions, the manager shall 

obtain approval from unit holders in accordance with regulation 22 and 

request for such approval shall be accompanied by a transaction document. 

(6) The disclosures in the offer document and transaction document shall include the following, 

as may be applicable,- 

 
190 Words, figures and symbols “in accordance with clause (a) of sub-regulation (3), as may be applicable” omitted 

by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
191 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
192 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

45 

 

(a) identity of the related parties and their relationship with the REIT or 

parties to the REIT; 

(b) nature and details of the transactions entered into or proposed to be 

entered into with such related parties including description and location 

of assets; 

(c) the price or value of the assets or securities bought or sold or leased or 

proposed to be bought or sold or leased and if leased or proposed to be 

leased, value of the lease; 

(d) ready reckoner rate of the real estate asset being bought or sold: 

Provided that where such ready reckoner rate are not available, property 

tax assessment value  or similar published rates by Government authorities 

shall be disclosed; 

(e) summary of the valuation report(s); 

(f) the current and expected rental yield; 

(g) if the transactions are conditional upon the REIT receiving a stated 

amount of subscriptions, the minimum amount of such subscriptions to 

be received; 

(h) amount of borrowing and rate of interest in case of borrowing from any 

related party; 

(i) any other information that is required for the investor to take an informed 

decision.  

(7) With respect to any properties leased to related parties to the REIT, both before and after 

initial offer, if,- 

(a) such lease area exceeds twenty per cent. of the total area of the underlying 

assets; 

(b) value of assets under such lease exceeds twenty per cent of the value of the 

total underlying assets; 

(c) rental income obtained from such leased assets exceeds twenty per cent of 

the value of the rental income of all underlying assets, 



 

46 

 

a fairness opinion from an independent valuer shall be obtained by the manager and 

submitted to the trustee and approval of unitholders in accordance with regulation 22 shall 

be obtained.  

(8) For any related party transaction requiring approval of the unit holders or proposed to be 

undertaken immediately after the initial offer, the agreement shall be entered into within six 

months from date of close of initial offer or from date of approval of the unit holders, as the 

case may be: 

Provided that in case of the agreement is not entered into within such period, approval from 

the unit holders may be sought for extension for another six months in accordance with 

regulation 22 with the updated valuation report(s). 

(9) Adequate disclosures of all related party transactions that have been entered into prior to 

the follow-on offer shall be made in the follow-on offer document. 

(10) Transaction between two or more of the REITs with a common manager or sponsor shall 

be deemed to be related party transactions for each of the REITs and provisions of this 

regulation shall apply:  

Provided that this sub-regulation shall also apply if the managers or sponsors of the REITs are 

different entities but are associates.  

(11) With respect to any related party transaction, details of any fees or commissions received 

or to be received by 193[such] related party194[(ies)] shall be adequately disclosed to the unit 

holders and to the designated stock exchanges. 

(12) No related party shall retain cash or other rebates from any property agent in consideration 

for referring transactions in REIT assets to the property agent. 

(13) Where any of the related parties has an interest in a business which competes or is likely 

to compete, either directly or indirectly, with the activities of the REIT, the following details 

shall be disclosed in the offer document,- 

(a) details of the such business including an explanation as to how such business 

shall compete with the REIT; 

 
193 Substituted “any person or entity which is an associate of the” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
194 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

47 

 

(b) a declaration that the related party shall perform its duty in relation to the REIT 

independent of its related business; 

(c) declaration as to whether any acquisition of such business by the REIT is 

intended and if so, details of the same thereof.  

(14) Any arrangement or transaction or contract with any related party other than as included 

in this regulation shall be disclosed to the unit holders and to the designated stock exchanges. 

 

Borrowings and deferred payments. 

20. 195[(1) A REIT, whose units are listed on a recognized stock exchange, may issue debt 

securities in the manner specified by the Board: 

Provided that such debt securities shall be listed on recognized stock exchange(s).] 

196[(2)] The aggregate consolidated borrowings and deferred payments of the REIT 197[, holdco 

and/or the SPV(s),] net of cash and cash equivalents shall never exceed forty nine per cent. of 

the value of the REIT assets: 

Provided that such borrowings and deferred payments shall not include any refundable security 

deposits to tenants.   

198[(3)] If the aggregate consolidated borrowings and deferred payments of the REIT 199[, 

holdco and/or the SPV(s),] net of cash and cash equivalents exceed twenty five per cent. of the 

value of the REIT assets, for any further borrowing,- 

(a) credit rating shall be obtained from a credit rating agency registered with the 

Board; and 

(b) approval of unit holders shall be obtained in the manner as specified in regulation 

22. 

200[(4)] If the conditions specified in sub-regulations (1) and (2) are breached on account of 

market movements of the price of the underlying assets or securities, the manager shall inform 

 
195 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
196 Re-numbered by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
197 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
198 Re-numbered by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
199 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
200 Re-numbered by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 



 

48 

 

the same to the trustee and ensure that the conditions as specified in this regulation are satisfied 

within six months of such breach. 

 

Valuation of assets. 

21. (1) The valuer shall not be an associate of the sponsor(s) or manager or trustee and shall 

have not less than five years of experience in valuation of real estate. 

(2) Full valuation includes a detailed valuation of all assets by the valuer including physical 

inspection of every property by the valuer. 

(3) Full valuation report shall include the mandatory minimum disclosures as specified in 

Schedule V to these regulations. 

(4) A full valuation shall be conducted by the valuer atleast once in every financial year: 

Provided that such full valuation shall be conducted at the end of the financial year ending 

March 31st within three months from the end of such year. 

(5) A half yearly valuation of the REIT assets shall be conducted by the valuer for the half-year 

ending on September 30 for incorporating any key changes in the previous six months and such 

half yearly valuation report shall be prepared within forty five days from the date of end of 

such half year.  

(6) Valuation reports received by the manager shall be submitted to the designated stock 

exchange and unit holders within fifteen days from the receipt of such valuation reports. 

(7) Prior to any issue of units to the public and any other issue of units as may be specified by 

the Board, the valuer shall undertake full valuation of all the REIT assets and include a 

summary of the report in the offer document: 

Provided that such valuation report shall not be more than six months old at the time of such 

offer: 

Provided further that this shall not apply in cases where full valuation has been undertaken not 

more than six months prior to such issue and no material changes have occurred thereafter.  

(8) For any transaction of purchase or sale of properties,201[ whether directly or through holdco 

and/or SPVs,]- 

 
201 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

49 

 

(a) if the transaction is a related party transaction, the valuation shall be in accordance 

with regulation 19; 

(b) if the transaction is not a related party transaction,- 

(i)  a full valuation of the specific property shall be undertaken by the valuer; 

(ii) if ,- 

(1) in case of a purchase transaction, the property is proposed to be 

purchased at  a value greater than one hundred and ten per cent. of the 

value of the property as assessed by the valuer; 

(2) in case of a sale transaction, the property is proposed to be sold at  a 

value less than ninety per cent. of the value of the property as assessed 

by the valuer,  

approval of the unit holders shall be obtained in accordance with regulation 22. 

(9) No valuer shall undertake valuation of the same property for more than four years 

consecutively: 

Provided that the valuer may be reappointed after a period of not less than two years from the 

date it ceases to be the valuer of the REIT. 

202[***]  

(11) In case of any material development that may have an impact on the valuation of the REIT 

assets, then manager shall require the valuer to undertake full valuation of the property under 

consideration within not more than two months from the date of such event and disclose the 

same to the trustee, investors and the Designated Stock Exchanges within fifteen days of such 

valuation. 

(12) The valuer shall not value any assets in which it has either been involved with the 

acquisition or disposal within the last twelve months other than such cases where valuer was 

engaged by the REIT for such acquisition or disposal.  

 
202 Omitted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017. 

Prior to its omission, the sub-regulation read as follows: 

“(10) Any valuation undertaken by any valuer shall abide by international valuation standards and valuation 

standards as may be specified by Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) for valuation of real estate 

assets: 

Provided that in case of any conflict, standards specified by ICAI shall prevail.” 



 

50 

 

 

CHAPTER VI 

RIGHTS OF UNIT HOLDERS, GENERAL OBLIGATIONS, DISCLOSURES AND 

REPORTING  

Rights and meetings of unit holders. 

22. (1) The unit holder shall have the rights to receive income or distributions as provided for 

in the Offer document or trust deed.  

(2) With respect to any matter requiring approval of the unit holders,- 

(a) a resolution shall be considered as passed when the votes cast by unit holders, so 

entitled and voting, in favour of the resolution exceed a certain percentage, as 

specified in this regulation, of the votes cast against; 

(b) the voting may also be done by postal ballot or electronic mode; 

(c) a notice of not less than twenty one days either in writing or through electronic 

mode shall be provided to the unit holders; 

(d) voting by any person who is a related party in such transaction as well as associates 

of such person(s) shall not be considered on the specific issue; 

(e) manager shall be responsible for all the activities pertaining to conducting of 

meeting of the unit holders, subject to overseeing by the trustee:  

Provided that in respect of issues pertaining to the manager such as change in 

manager including removal of the manager or change in control of the manager, 

Trustee shall convene and handle all activities pertaining to conduct of the 

meetings:  

Provided further that in respect of issues pertaining to the trustee such as change in 

the trustee, the trustee shall not be involved in any manner in the conduct of the 

meeting.  

(3) An annual meeting of all unit holders shall be held not less than once a year within one 

hundred and twenty days from the end of financial year and the time between two meetings 

shall not exceed fifteen months. 

(4) With respect to the annual meeting of unit holders,- 



 

51 

 

(a) any information that is required to be disclosed to the unit holders and any issue 

that, in the ordinary course of business, may require approval of the unit holders 

may be taken up in the meeting including,- 

(i) latest annual accounts and performance of the REIT; 

(ii) approval of auditor and fees of such auditor, as may be required; 

(iii) latest valuation reports; 

(iv) appointment of valuer, as may be required; 

(v) any other issue including special issues as specified under sub-

regulation (6); 

(b) for any issue taken up in such meetings which require approval from the unit 

holders, votes cast in favour of the resolution shall 203[be more than] the votes cast 

against the resolution. 

(5) In case of,- 

(a) any approval from unit holders required under regulation 18, 19 and 21; 

(b) any transaction, other than any borrowing, value of which is equal to or greater 

than twenty five per cent. of the REIT assets; 

(c) any borrowing in excess of specified limit as required under sub-regulation (2) 

of regulation 20; 

(d) any issue of units after initial offer by the REIT, in whatever form, other than 

any issue of units which may be considered by the Board under sub-

regulation(6); 

(e) increasing period for compliance with investment conditions to one year in 

accordance with proviso to sub-regulation (9) of regulation 18; 

(f) any issue, in the ordinary course of business, which in the opinion of the 

sponsor(s) or trustee or manager, is material and requires approval of the unit 

holders, if any; 

 
203 Substituted “not be less than  one and a half times” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

52 

 

(g) any issue for which the Board or the designated stock exchange requires 

approval under this sub-regulation, 

  approval from unitholders shall be required where the votes cast in favour of the resolution 

shall be 204[more than] the votes cast against the resolution. 

 (6) In case of ,- 

(a) any change in manager including removal of the manager or change in 

control of the manager; 

(b) any material change in investment strategy or any change in the management 

fees of the REIT; 

(c) the sponsor(s) or manager proposing to seek delisting of units of the REIT; 

(d) the value of the units held by a person along with its associates other than the 

sponsor(s) and its associates exceeding fifty per cent. of the value of 

outstanding REIT units, prior to acquiring any further units; 

(e) any issue, not in the ordinary course of business, which in the opinion of the 

sponsor(s) or manager or trustee requires approval of the unit holders; 

(f) any issue for which the Board or the designated stock exchanges requires 

approval under this sub-regulation; 

(g) any issue taken up on request of the unit holders including: 

(i) removal of the manager and appointment of another manager to the 

REIT; 

(ii) removal of the auditor and appointment of another auditor to the 

REIT; 

(iii) removal of the valuer and appointment of another valuer to the 

REIT; 

(iv) delisting of the REIT if the unit holders have sufficient reason to 

believe that such delisting would act in the interest of the unit 

holders; 

 
204 Substituted “not less than one and half times” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

53 

 

(v) any issue which the unit holders have sufficient reason to believe 

that acts detrimental to the interest of the unit holders;  

(vi) change in the trustee if the unit holders have sufficient reason to 

believe that acts of such trustee is detrimental to the interest of the 

unit holders,  

 approval from unit holders shall be required where the votes cast in favour of the 

resolution shall be not less than 205[one and half] times the votes cast against the 

resolution: 

Provided that in case of clause (d), if approval is not obtained, the person shall provide 

an exit option to the unitholders to the extent and in the manner as may be specified by 

the Board.  

(7) With respect to the right(s) of the unit holders under clause (g) of sub-regulation (6),- 

(a) not less than twenty five per cent. of the unit holders by value, other than 

any party related to the transactions and its associates, shall apply, in 

writing, to the trustee for the purpose;  

(b) on receipt of such application, the Trustee shall require the manager to 

place the issue for voting in the manner as specified in these regulations; 

(c) with respect to sub-clause (vi) of clause (g) of sub-regulation (6) , not less 

than sixty per cent. of the unit holders by value shall apply, in writing, to 

the manager for the purpose. 

(8) In case of any change in sponsor or re-designated sponsor or change in control of sponsor 

or re-designated sponsor,- 

(a) prior to such changes, approval shall be obtained from the unit holders 

wherein votes cast in favour of the resolution shall not be less than three 

times the votes cast against the resolution; 

(b) if such change does not receive the required approval,- 

(i) in case of change of sponsor or re-designated sponsor, the 

proposed re-designated sponsor who proposes to buy the units 

 
205 Substituted “three”by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016 

 



 

54 

 

shall provide the dissenting unit holders an option to exit by 

buying their units; 

(ii) in case of change in control of the sponsor or re-designated 

sponsor, the sponsor or re-designated sponsor shall provide the 

dissenting unit holders an option to exit by buying their units; 

(c) if on account of such sale, the number of unit holders forming part of the 

public falls below 206[as required under sub-regulation (2A) of Regulation 

14] two hundred or below 207[ the trustee may provide a period of one year 

to the manager to rectify the same, failing which], the 208[manager] shall 

apply for delisting of the units of the REIT in accordance with regulation 

17. 

 

Disclosures. 

23. (1) The manager shall ensure that the disclosures in the offer document are in accordance 

with the Schedule III to these regulations and any circulars or guidelines issued by the Board 

in this regard. 

(2) The manager shall submit an annual report to all unit holders of the REIT with respect to 

activities of the REIT, within three months from the end of the financial year. 

(3) The manager shall submit a half-yearly report to all unit holders of the REIT with respect 

to activities of the REIT within forty five days from the end of the half year ending on  

September 30th. 

(4) Such annual and half yearly reports shall contain disclosures as specified under Schedule 

IV to these regulations. 

(5) The manager shall disclose to the designated stock exchanges any information having 

bearing on the operation or performance of the REIT as well as price sensitive information 

which includes but is not restricted to the following,- 

 
206 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
207 Substituted for “twenty five per cent. of the total outstanding units” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment 

Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
208 Substituted for “trustee” the trustee may provide a period of one year to the manager to rectify the same, 

failing which 



 

55 

 

(a) acquisition or disposal of any properties, value of which exceeds five per cent. of 

value of the REIT assets; 

(b) additional borrowing, at level of 209[holdco or] SPV or the REIT, resulting in such 

borrowing exceeding five per cent. of the value of the REIT assets during the year; 

(c) additional issue of units by the REIT; 

(d) details of any credit rating obtained by the REIT and any change in such rating; 

(e) any issue which requires approval of the unit holders; 

(f) any legal proceedings which may have significant bearing on the functioning of 

the REIT; 

(g) notices and results of meetings of unit holders;  

(h) any instance of non-compliance with these regulations including any breach of 

limits specified under these regulations; 

(i) any material issue that in the opinion of the manager or trustee needs to be disclosed 

to the unit holders. 

(6) The manager shall submit such information to the designated stock exchanges and unit 

holders on a periodical basis as may be required under the listing agreement. 

(7) The manager shall disclose to the designated stock exchanges, unit holders and the Board 

such information and in the manner as may be specified by the Board.. 

 

Submission of reports to the Board. 

24. The Board may at any time call upon the REIT or parties to the REIT to file such reports, 

as the Board may desire, with respect to the activities relating to the REIT. 

 

Power to call for information. 

25. (1) The Board may at any time call for any information from the REIT or 210[holdco or 

SPV(s) or] parties to the REIT or any unit holder or any other person with respect to any matter 

relating to activity of the REIT. 

 
209 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
210 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

56 

 

(2) Where any information is called for under sub-regulation (1), it shall be furnished within 

the time specified by the Board. 

 

Maintenance of records. 

26. (1) The manager shall maintain records pertaining to the activity of the REIT including, 

211[for a period of not less than seven years,]- 

(a) decisions of the manager with respect to investments or divestments and 

documents supporting the same; 

(b) details of investments made by the REIT and documents supporting the same; 

(c) agreements entered into by the REIT or on behalf of the REIT; 

(d) documents relating to appointment of persons as specified in sub-regulation (5) of 

regulation 10; 

(e) insurance policies for real estate assets; 

(f) investment management agreement; 

(g) documents pertaining to issue and listing of units including initial offer document 

or follow-on offer document(s) or other offer document(s), in-principle approval 

by designated stock exchanges, listing agreement with the designated stock 

exchanges, details of subscriptions, allotment of units, etc.; 

(h) distributions declared and made to the unit holders; 

(i) disclosures and periodical reporting made to the trustee, Board, unit holders and 

designated stock exchanges including annual reports, half yearly reports, etc.; 

(j) valuation reports including methodology of valuation; 

(k) books of accounts and financial statements; 

(l) audit reports; 

(m) reports relating to activities of the REIT placed before the Board of Directors of 

the manager; 

 
211 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

57 

 

(n) unit holders' grievances and actions taken thereon including copies of 

correspondences made with the unit holders and the Board, if any; 

(o) any other material documents. 

(2) The trustee shall maintain records pertaining to,- 

(a) certificate of registration granted by the Board;  

(b) registered trust deed; 

(c) documents pertaining to application made to the Board for registration as a REIT; 

(d) titles of the real estate assets: 

Provided that where the original title documents are deposited with the lender in 

respect of any loan / debt, the trustee shall maintain copies of such title documents; 

(e) notices and agenda send to unit holders for meetings held; 

(f) minutes of meetings and resolutions passed therein; 

(g) periodical reports and disclosures received by the trustee from the manager; 

(h) disclosures, periodically or otherwise, made to the Board, unit holders and to the 

designated stock exchanges; 

(i) any other material documents. 

(3) The records specified in sub-regulation (2) may be maintained in physical or electronic 

form: 

Provided that where records are required to be duly signed and are maintained in the 

electronic form, such records shall be digitally signed. 

 

CHAPTER VII 

INSPECTION 

Boards right to inspect. 

27. The Board may suo motu or upon receipt of information or complaint appoint one or more 

persons as inspecting officers to undertake inspection of the books of accounts, records and 



 

58 

 

documents relating to activity of the REIT 212[ or holdco or SPVs or parties to the REIT] for 

any of the following reasons, namely,-   

(a) to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being maintained by the 

REIT or parties to the REIT in the manner specified in these regulations;   

(b) to inspect into complaints received from unit holders, clients or any other person, on any 

matter having a bearing on the activities of the REIT;   

(c) to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act and these regulations are being complied 

with by the REIT and parties to the REIT;  

(d) to inspect suo motu into the affairs of the REIT, in the interest of the securities market or 

in the interest of investors.  

 

 

Notice before inspection.  

28. (1) Before ordering an inspection under regulation 27, the Board shall give not less than 

ten days notice to the trustee of the REIT.   

(2)  Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that 

in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may, by an order in writing, 

direct that the inspection of the affairs of the REIT be taken up without such notice.   

(3)  During the course of an inspection, the REIT against whom the inspection is being carried 

out and parties to the REIT shall be bound to discharge their obligations as provided in 

regulation 29.  

 

Obligation of REIT, parties to the REIT and any other associate persons on inspection. 

29. (1) It shall be the duty of every REIT in respect of whom an inspection has been ordered 

under the regulation 27, parties to the REIT and any other associate person who is in possession 

of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of such REIT, including representative 

of REIT, if any, to produce to the inspecting officer such books, accounts and other documents 

 
212 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

59 

 

in his custody or control and furnish him with such statements and information as the inspecting 

officer may require for the purposes of inspection.   

(2) It shall be the duty of every REIT, parties to the REIT and any other associate person who 

is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of the REIT to give 

to the Inspecting Officer all such assistance and to extend all such co-operation as may be 

required in connection with the inspection and to furnish such information as may be sought 

by the inspecting officer in connection with the inspection.   

(3) The inspecting officer shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to examine on oath 

and record the statement of any employees and directors of the REIT or parties to the REIT or 

213[ holdco or SPV(s) or] any person responsible for or connected with the activities of REIT 

or any other associated person having relevant information pertaining to such REIT. 

(4) The inspecting officer shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to obtain 

authenticated copies of documents, books, accounts of REIT, from any person having control 

or custody of such documents, books or accounts.  

Submission of report to the Board.  

30. The inspecting officer shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection submit 

an inspection report to the Board: 

Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit an interim report.  

 

Communication of findings etc. to the REIT. 

31. The Board may after consideration of the inspection report and after giving reasonable 

opportunity of hearing to the REITs or parties to the REIT or its representatives or any such 

person, issue such directions as it deems fit in the interest of securities market or the investors 

in the nature of,- 

(a) requiring the REIT to delist its units from the designated stock exchanges and surrender 

its certificate of registration; 

(b) requiring the REIT to sell its assets; 

 
213 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

60 

 

(c) requiring the REIT or parties to the REIT to take such action as may be in the interest 

of the investors; 

(d) prohibiting the REIT or parties to the REIT from operating in the capital market or 

from accessing the capital market for a specified period.  

 

 

CHAPTER VIII 

PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 

Liability for action in case of default. 

32. A REIT or parties to the REIT or any other person involved in the activity of the REIT who 

contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or these regulations, notifications, guidelines, 

circulars or instructions issued thereunder by the Board shall be liable for one or more actions 

specified therein including any action provided under the Securities and Exchange Board of 

India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.  

   

214[CHAPTER VIII-A 

POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 

 

Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 

32A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or 

any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding 

twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to testing new 

products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox 

in the securities markets. 

(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the 

applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to 

be complied with on a continuous basis. 

Explanation. — For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means a live 

testing environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be 

deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering 

 
214 Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulation, w.e.f. 17-04-2020. 



 

61 

 

innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the 

Board.]  

 

CHAPTER IX 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Power of the Board to issue clarifications. 

33. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, 

the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the manner as may be appropriate. 

 

215[Power to relax strict enforcement of Regulations 

 (33A) The Board may, in the interest of investors or for the development of the securities 

market, relax the strict enforcement of any requirement of these regulations, if the Board is 

satisfied that 

(a) requirement is procedural or technical in nature; or 

(b) the requirement may cause undue hardship to investors; or 

(c) the disclosure requirement is not relevant for a particular industry or class of listed 

entities; or 

(d) the non-compliance was caused due to factors beyond the control of the issuer; or 

(e) such relaxation will be in the interest of securities market216[; or] 

217[(f)] any provision of Act(s), Rule(s), regulation(s) under which the listed entity is 

established or is governed by, is required to be given precedence to] 

 

Amendments to other regulations. 

34. The regulations specified in the Schedule VII to these regulations shall be amended in the 

manner and to the extent stated therein. 

 

 

 
215 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
216 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
217 Clause number inserted ibid  



 

62 

 

 

 

 

SCHEDULE I 

FORMS 

     FORM A 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 

Application for Grant of Certificate of Registration as Real Estate Investment Trust 

[See Regulation 3(2)] 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India  

SEBI Bhavan, C4-A, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai 400051 - India 

 

INSTRUCTIONS 

1. This form is meant for use by the applicant for grant of certificate of registration as a Real 

Estate Investment Trust. 

2. The applicant should complete this form, and submit it, along with all supporting 

documents to the Board. 

3. This application form should be filled in accordance with these regulations. 

4. The application shall be considered by the Board provided it is complete in all respects. 

5. All answers must be legible and all the pages must be numbered with signature/ stamp on 

each page of the form. 

6. Information which needs to be supplied in more detail may be given on separate sheets 

which should be attached to the application form and appropriately numbered. 

7. The application must be signed and all signatures must be original. 



 

63 

 

8. The application must be accompanied by an application fee as specified in the Second 

Schedule to these regulations. 

 

1. GENERAL INFORMATION 

(a) Name, address, telephone number(s), fax number(s), e-mail address of the REIT 

(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s) 

(c) Whether the 218[trust] 219[/] sponsor(s)/220[***] manager 221[ or their associates or 

sponsor group(s)/ trustee] is/ are registered with SEBI, RBI or any other regulatory 

authority in any capacity along with the details of its registration  

(d) Details of infrastructure for conducting activities as an Real Estate Investment Trust 

2. 222[DETAILS OF TRUST] 

(a) Write-up on the activities of the 223[trust]  

(b) Whether the Trust Deed is registered under the provisions of the Registration Act, 

1908  

(c) Whether the Trust Deed has its main objective as undertaking activity of REIT and 

includes responsibilities of the Trustee in accordance with Regulation 9 of these 

Regulations (Enclose relevant extract of the Registered Trust Deed) 

(d) Whether any unit holder of the REIT enjoys preferential voting or any other rights 

over another unit holder 

(e) Whether there are multiple classes of units of REIT 

3. DETAILS OF TRUSTEE  

(a) Name, address of registered office, address for correspondence and principal place 

of business, telephone number(s), fax number(s), e-mail address of the Trustee. 

 
218 Substituted for the word “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment 

Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
219 Substituted “or its associates or its”by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
220 Omitted “trustee/” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016 
221 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
222 Substititted for the heading “DETAILS OF APPLICANT” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real 

Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
223 Substituted ibid.  



 

64 

 

(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s) 

(c) Brief write up on the activities of the trustee  

(d) Details of registration as a Debenture Trustee 

(e) 224[***] 

(f) Details of infrastructure, personnel, etc. relevant to the activity as trustee of the 

REIT 

(g) Identity and Address proof of the trustee and its directors  

(h) Whether the Trustee Company is registered with any regulatory authority other than 

SEBI in any capacity along with the details of its registration 

225[(i) Copy of the executed Trust Deed] 

4. DETAILS OF SPONSOR(S)  (Provide details for every sponsor separately) 

(a) Name, address of registered office, address for correspondence and principal place 

of business, telephone number(s), fax number(s), e-mail address of the sponsor(s) 

(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s) 

(c) Legal status of the sponsor, date and place of incorporation/ establishment, wherever 

applicable 

(d) In case of sponsor being individual(s), provide a brief profile of the sponsor 

including professional qualification. In case of sponsor(s) being other than 

individual, write up on holding pattern and profile of the directors/partners including 

their professional qualification 

(e) Identity proof and address proof of the sponsor (if sponsor is an individual)/ directors 

of Sponsor (s)(if sponsor is a company)/ partners of the Sponsor(s) (if sponsor is an 

LLP) 

(f) Write up on the activities of the sponsor/its associates including past experience in 

development of real estate or fund management in the real estate industry 

 
224 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 

Prior to its omission, sub paragraph (e) read as under : “List of associates of the trustee” 
225 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.  



 

65 

 

(g) Whether the Sponsor has floated any REITs previously, which are registered with 

SEBI. If yes, details of the same  

(h) Proposed holding of the sponsor in the REIT on post-issue basis 

(i) Copies of the financial statements for the previous financial year  

(j) Net-worth certificate of sponsor(s) by a Chartered Accountant, not more than six 

months old 

5. DETAILS OF MANAGER  

(a) Name, address of the registered office address for correspondence, telephone 

number(s), fax number(s), of the Manager 

(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s) 

(c) Legal status, date and place of incorporation/ establishment, wherever applicable 

(d) Copy of 226[executed] Investment Management agreement  

(e) Write up on the activities of the Manager/ its associates including past experience in 

fund management/ advisory services/property management in the real estate industry 

or in development of real estate 

(f) List of Directors/ Members of Governing Board 

(g) Identity proof and address proof of the manager, its directors or partners 

(h) Shareholding/partnership interests and profile of the directors /partners  

(i) Details of the key personnel including experience and professional qualification 

(j) Copies of the financial statements for the previous financial year 

(k) Net-worth certificate of manager by a Chartered Accountant, not more than six 

months old 

(l) Whether the Manager has acted as manager to any REIT previously, which are 

registered with SEBI. If yes, details of the same 

6. DETAILS OF BUSINESS PLAN AND INVESTMENT STRATEGY 

(a) Investment objective and investment style 

 
226 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 



 

66 

 

(b) Details of proposed initial offer 227[***]. 

(c) Brief details of the assets proposed to be held under REIT  

(d) Details of leverage at 228[holdco and /or SPV(s)] and REIT level (current and 

proposed) 

(e) Fee structure  

7. DETAILS OF REGULATORY ACTION TAKEN IN THE PAST, IF ANY 

(a) Whether the 229[ REIT or the parties to the REIT or their directors/ members of 

governing board] are / were involved in any litigation connected with the securities 

market which may have an adverse bearing on the business of the 230[REIT] or any 

order has/ had been passed against them for violation of securities laws. (If Yes, 

provide details. If No, enclose a declaration to that effect) 

(b) Whether any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board or any other regulatory 

authority against the 231[ REIT or the parties to the REIT or their directors/ members 

of governing board] under any Act or the Regulations/guidelines made thereunder 

(If Yes, provide details. If No, enclose a declaration to that effect) 

(c) Whether 232[REIT or the parties to the REIT or their directors/ members of governing 

board] has/ have been refused a certificate by the Board or its/ their certificate has 

been suspended at any time prior to this application. (If Yes, provide details. If No, 

enclose a declaration to that effect) 

8. OTHER INFORMATION/DECLARATIONS 

(a) Declaration that the sponsor(s) shall individually hold not less than 5% of the units 

of the REIT on post initial offer basis 

 
227 Omitted “including copy of the draft initial offer document” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
228 Substituted “SPV” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 

30.11.2016 
229 Substituted “applicant or any of its related party(ies)” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
230 Substituted for “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
231 Substituted “applicant or any of its related party(ies)” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
232 Substituted “applicant or any of its related party(ies)” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

67 

 

(b) Declaration that the 233[REIT and parties to the REIT] are fit and proper persons 

based on the criteria specified in the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008 

 

DECLARATION STATEMENT (TO BE GIVEN AS BELOW) 

We hereby agree and declare that the information supplied in the application, including the 

attachment sheets, is complete and true. 

AND we further agree that, we shall notify the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

immediately any change in the information provided in the application. 

We further agree that we shall comply with, and be bound by the Securities and Exchange 

Board of India Act, 1992, and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate 

Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014, and any other regulations, guidelines or circulars as may 

be notified or issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India from time to time. 

We further agree that as a condition of registration, we shall abide by such operational 

instructions/directives as may be issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India from 

time to time. 

 

 

For and on behalf of____________________________________________________ 

(Name of the applicant) 

 

Authorized signatory 

(Signature) 

                                    FORM B 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 

 
233 Substituted for the words “applicant, Sponsor and Manager” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.  



 

68 

 

[See regulation 6(1)] 

Certificate of registration as a Real Estate Investment Trust  

I. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Securities and 

Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), read with the regulations made there under, 

the Board hereby grants a certificate of registration to  

_______________________________________________________________  

as a Real Estate Investment Trust subject to the conditions specified in the Act and in the 

regulations made thereunder.  

 

II. The Registration Number of the Real Estate Investment Trust is: 

_____________.  

 

Date :  

Place :  

 

By Order  

Sd/-  

For and on behalf of  

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

  



 

69 

 

SCHEDULE II 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

Regulations, 2014 

[See Regulation 3(2), 6(1) and 14(10)] 

FEES TO BE PAID WITH RESPECT TO REGISTRATION AS A REIT 

1. Every applicant shall pay non-refundable application fees of one lakh rupees along 

with the application for grant of certificate of registration. 

 

2. Every applicant shall pay as non-refundable registration fees a sum of ten lakh 

rupees within fifteen days from the date of receipt of intimation from the Board. 

 

3. REIT shall pay non-refundable filing fees of: 

(a) 0.1% in case of initial and follow-on offer; and  

(b) 0.05% in case of rights issue,  

of the total issue size including intended retention of oversubscription at the time 

of filing of draft Offer document with the Board  

 

4. If the issue size estimated by the REIT differs from eventual issue size and 

thereby:– 

(a) the fees paid by the REIT is found to be deficient, the balance fee shall be 

paid by the issuer 234[alongwith] filing 235[of the final offer document] with 

the recognised stock exchanges, as the case may be; and 

(b) if any excess fee is found to have been paid, it shall be refunded by the 

Board to the REIT. 

 

5. Such application, registration and filing fees shall be paid by the applicant/REIT 

236[by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any 

other mode allowed by RBI or] by a demand draft in favour of 'Securities and 

 
234 Substituted “within seven days of registering the prospectus with the Registrar of Companies or” by the SEBI 

(Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
235 Substituted “the letter of offer” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 

2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
236 Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 

6.3.2017. 



 

70 

 

Exchange Board of India' payable at Mumbai or at respective regional or local 

office, as may be required. 

 



 

71 

 

SCHEDULE III 

[See Regulations 15 and 23] 

MANDATORY DISCLOSURES IN INITIAL OFFER DOCUMENT/FOLLOW ON 

OFFER DOCUMENT 

1. Introduction 

a. Name, registered office address, correspondence address, contact person (s), 

contact details and email id of the REIT 

b. Place and date of creation of the REIT 

c. Registration number and date of registration of the REIT with SEBI  

2. Details of parties to the REIT 

a. Sponsor  

i. Name, registered office address, correspondence addresses, Contact 

person (s), contact details, email id 

ii. Background of the sponsor including activities being undertaken by the 

sponsor with respect to real estate 

b. Manager 

i. Background of the manager including past experience in 

management/advisory services in real estate 

ii. Brief functions, duties and responsibilities of the manager 

iii. Brief profiles of the directors of the manager and units held by them in 

the REIT, if any 

c. Trustee 

i. Background of the trustee including details of registration with SEBI 

ii. Names and profiles of the Directors 

iii. Functions, duties and responsibilities of the Trustee 

d. Valuer  

i. Background of the valuer including past experience in valuation in real 

estate, especially in valuation of similar assets by nature and location 

ii. Policy of appointment and removal 

 



 

72 

 

3. Brief background of the REIT 

a. Glossary of terms/abbreviations 

b. Structure and description of the REIT 

c. Details of Property Management / Lease Management and any other 

arrangements pertaining to underlying REIT assets, entered into with various 

parties prior to the issue 

d. Holding structure of the REIT prior to the issue including breakup of the units 

held by the sponsor, manager, any other party to the REIT and any other unit 

holder holding greater than 5% of the units of the REIT 

e. Proposed holding structure by the aforesaid parties post-issue 

f. Fee and expenses charged/chargeable to the REIT by various parties including 

fees charged by the manager, valuer, auditor, trustees and any other third party 

and shall also include any set-up costs 

4. Terms of the issue 

a. Terms of the offer including number of units, price, issue opening date, issue 

closing date, terms and conditions and any other information as may be 

required for the investor to make an informed decision 

b. Policy of distribution including method of calculation and the frequency for 

distribution 

c. Listing of units 

i. Names of the Designated Stock Exchanges where units are proposed to 

be listed  

ii. Timelines for listing 

iii. Declaration that prior in-principle approval has been obtained from the 

Designated Stock Exchanges 

237[d. Commitment received from strategic investors, if any.] 

5. Market overview  

6. Description of the assets under the REIT 

a. Breakup/proposed breakup of REIT assets in terms of Regulation 18  

 
237 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 



 

73 

 

b. Description of real estate assets of the REIT including the general character 

and competitive conditions of all the properties held or intended to be acquired 

by the REIT and pictures of the properties.  

c. Key statistics of the properties (area, occupancy, location, etc.) 

d. Special features of the properties, if any  

e. Details of the 238[holdco and/or] SPVs through which the properties are 

held/proposed to be held including holding pattern, holding of REIT in the 

239[holdco and/or] SPV, rights of REIT in the 240[holdco and/or] SPV, etc. 

f. In case the properties are held directly by the REIT, details of holding of all 

the owners of the properties including percentage of ownership, rights of REIT 

vis-à-vis other owners, etc. 

g. Confirmation of adequate Insurance by the Trustee  

h. For leased out properties (property-wise), the following additional disclosures 

shall be made: 

i. Total number of tenants 

ii. Rental income as a percentage of total gross income in aggregate for 

the top 10 tenants  

iii. Lease-maturity profile, in terms of the percentage of total gross rental 

income, for each of the next five years 

iv. a summary of the terms of any sub-leases or  tenancies, including repair 

obligation, granted to the tenants of the property 

v. the existing monthly rental income before tax from the property which 

is wholly or partly let, together with the amount and a description of 

any outgoings or disbursements from the rent 

vi. the estimated current monthly market rental obtainable, on the basis 

that the property was available to let on the effective date as at which 

the property was valued 

vii. a summary of any rent review provisions 

viii. Level of furnishing of the properties including whether the properties 

are cold-shell properties or fully furnished 

 
238 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
239 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
240 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

74 

 

ix. Whether any clauses exist in rental agreements providing high grace 

period in lieu of higher rental values. If yes, details shall be provided 

i. For under-construction properties (property-wise), the following additional 

disclosures shall be made: 

i. Stage of construction along with % of completed construction as at the 

end of the year 

ii. Progress of construction 

iii. Expected completion  

iv. Status of approval/assessment from various authorities including 

statutory assessment & environment considerations with respect to 

development regulations and planning norms 

7. Business Details and Strategy 

a. Investment strategy 

• Description of investment strategy including category, type, location, 

allocation to each type, co-investment in properties, etc.  

• Description of ROFR with respect to any properties 

• Capital and risk management strategy 

b. Use of proceeds: 

• purpose of the issue 

• Issue Expenses 

c. 241[***]  

8. Leverage 

a. Capital structure of the REIT assets including any borrowings/deferred 

payments with respect to the REIT assets prior to the issue and post-issue 

(Standalone and consolidated) 

b. Borrowing policy   

9. Conflict of interest and Related party transactions 

a. Procedure for dealing with related party transactions and Conflict of Interest  

 
241 Omitted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 

Prior to its omission, sub paragraph (c) read as follows: 

“Projections of income of the REIT over next three years beginning the current financial year certified by the 

manager with respect to calculation and assumptions and certified by the auditor with respect to arithmetical 

accuracy”  



 

75 

 

 

 

b. Details of any related party transactions 242[which are] undertaken 243[ in last 

three financial years and current financial year] as well as any such transactions 

proposed in the future 

10. Valuation 

a. Summary of valuation as per the full valuation report 

b. Valuation methodology  

c. Frequency of valuation and declaration of NAV 

11. Financials 

a. Total rental income from the properties (property-wise) under the REIT for the 

previous 3 years 

b. Summary of the financial statements of the REIT 244[***], manager and 

sponsor for the previous 3 years, as  applicable  

c. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of factors affecting financial condition 

and results of operations by the Manager 

245[(d) Projections of income of the REIT over next three years beginning the 

current financial year certified by the manager and the auditor with respect to 

calculation and assumptions  

(e) Contingent liabilities as on the date of the financial information disclosed 

in the offer document/placement memorandum] 

12. Rights of Unit Holders  

a. Rights of unit holders  

b. Proposed disclosures to the unit holders either directly or by public 

dissemination on the Designated Stock Exchanges website 

c. Frequency and manner of meetings of unit holders 

13. Title disclosures, litigations and regulatory actions  

 
242 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
243 Substitued “prior to the offer” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 

w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
244 Omitted “(consolidated and stand alone)” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
245 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 



 

76 

 

a. Title disclosure of the properties including any material litigations pertaining 

to the properties 

b. Brief description of the material litigations and regulatory actions 246[which 

are] pending, against the REIT, sponsor247[(s)], manager, 248[ or any of their 

associates and sponsor group(s), the trustee and valuer,] if any 249[***] 

14. Risk factors 

15. Brief details on taxation and regulatory aspects to enable the investors to make 

an informed decision 

16. Other general information 

a. Key terms of material agreements relating to the REIT including but not 

limited to the investment management agreement 

b. Policy of appointment of auditor and auditing standards to be followed 

c. Policy and timelines for redressal of complaints by the investors 

17. Supporting Documents 

a. 250[***] 

b. Auditors Report 

c. Any other such report 

18. Such other information as is material and appropriate to enable the investors to 

make an informed decision 

19. Declarations 251[(to be signed by the board of directors of the manager and 

sponsor)] 

252[20. The documents to be provided to the Board,- 

a. Full valuation report, alongwith offer document 

 
246 Substituted “, whether completed or” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
247 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
248 Substituted “trustee, valuer or any of their associates,” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
249 Symbol and words “, in the past 5 years” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate 

Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
250 Omitted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 

Prior to its omission, sub paragraph (a) read as follows: 

 “Full Valuation Report” 
251 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
252 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 



 

77 

 

b. Due diligence certificate alongwith draft offer document and  offer document 

c. In principle approval from the exchange(s)] 

 



 

78 

 

SCHEDULE IV 

[See Regulation 23(4)] 

MANDATORY DISCLOSURES 

 

Mandatory Disclosures in the Annual Report 

1. Manager's brief report of activities of the REIT and summary of the audited stand alone 

and consolidated financial statements for the year of the REIT 

2. Management discussion and analysis by the directors of the manager on activities of the 

REIT during the year, forecasts and future course of action 

3. Brief details of all the assets of the REIT including a break-up of real estate assets and other 

assets, location of the properties, area of the properties, current tenants (not less than top 

10 tenants as per value of lease), lease maturity profile, details of under-construction 

properties, if any, etc. 

4. Brief summary of the full valuation report as at the end of the year 

5. Details of changes during the year pertaining to: 

a. Addition and divestment of assets including the identity of the buyers or sellers, 

purchase/sale prices and brief details of valuation for such transactions 

b. Valuation of assets (as per the full valuation reports) and NAV  

c. Letting of assets, occupancy, lease maturity, key tenants, etc. 

d. Borrowings/ repayment of borrowings(standalone and consolidated) 

e. Sponsor, manager, trustee, valuer, directors of the Trustee/manager/sponsor, etc. 

f. Clauses in trust deed, investment management agreement or any other agreement 

entered into pertaining to activities of REIT 

g. Any other material change during the year 

6. Update on development of under-construction properties, if any 

7. Details of outstanding borrowings and deferred payments of REIT including any credit 

rating(s), debt maturity profile, gearing ratios of the REIT on a consolidated and standalone 

basis as at the end of the year  



 

79 

 

8. Debt maturity profile over each of the next 5 years and debt covenants, if any; 

9. The total operating expenses of the REIT, including all fees and charges paid to the manager  

and any other parties, if any during the year 

10. Past performance of the REIT with respect to unit price, distributions and yield for the last 

5 years, as applicable 

11. Unit price quoted on the Designated Stock Exchanges at the beginning and end of the 

financial year, the highest and lowest unit price and the average daily volume traded during 

the financial year 

12. 253[1]Details of all related party  transactions during the year 254[, value of which exceeds 

five per cent of value of the REIT assets] 

255[2. Details regarding the monies lent by REIT to the holding company or the special 

purpose vehicle in which it has investment in.] 

13. Details of fund raising during the year, if any 

14. 256[***] 

257[14A. Brief details of material and price sensitive information] 

15. Brief details of material litigations and regulatory actions 258[which are] pending, against 

the REIT, 259[ sponsor(s), manager or any of their associates and sponsor group(s) and the 

trustee], if any, as at the end of the year  

16. Risk factors  

17. Information of the contact person of the REIT 

Mandatory annexure to the annual report 

1. Summary of full valuation report capturing key aspects of the report 

 
253 Sub-claue number inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, 

w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
254 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
255 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
256 Omitted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
Prior to its omission, paragraph 14 read as follows:  

“Brief report on corporate governance” 
257 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
258 Substituted “, whether completed or” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 

Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
259 Substituted “parties to the REIT or any of their associates” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 



 

80 

 

2. Auditor's report 

 

Mandatory disclosures in the Half-yearly report 

1. All details as provided above (other than clause (2) and mandatory annexures) for annual 

report for the previous half-year or as at the end of the half-year as applicable 

2. Financial statements for the half year; (Standalone and consolidated). If audited statements 

are not available, unaudited statements may be provided subject to disclosure to that effect 

3. Updated valuation report by the valuer taking into account any material developments 

during the previous half-year 

4. Any other material events during the half-year 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

81 

 

SCHEDULE V 

[See Regulation 21(3)] 

MANDATORY MINIMUM DISCLOSURES IN FULL VALUATION REPORT 

The full valuation report shall include the following:  

a. Name and brief details of the valuer 

b. all material details in relation to the basis of valuation 

c. Description and explanation of the valuation methodologies adopted including key 

assumptions used, justification of the assumptions, explanation of the rationale for 

choosing the particular valuation method if more than one method is or could have been 

adopted, etc.   

d. overall structure and condition of the relevant market including an analysis of the supply-

demand situation, the market trend and investment activities  

e. For every property, the following details 260[, to the extent applicable,] shall be 

mentioned:  

i. Address of the property, ownership and title details including whether the 

transaction is a related party transaction (Valuer may rely on the title disclosures 

provided by the manager for the purpose) 

ii. Location of the property (include latest pictures), formal site identification, physical 

features (e.g. size, configuration, frontage, topography) site services, town 

planning, etc.  

iii. If the property is completed and revenue generating, the following shall be 

mentioned: 

1. the existing use of the property 

2. a brief description of the property including age of the building, the site area, 

261[developable area, leasable area, completed area, occupied area] etc. 

3. occupancy rate 

 
260 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
261 Substituted for the words “gross floor area, net lettable floor area” by the Securities and Exchange Board of 

India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.  



 

82 

 

iv. In case of under-construction properties, the following shall be mentioned: 

1. Stage of completion of the property 

2. Statutory approvals received and pending as on date of valuation 

3. Approved use of the property as per approved construction plans 

v. the options or rights of pre-emption and other encumbrances concerning or affecting 

the property  

vi. the nature of the interest the REIT holds/proposes to hold in the property whether 

freehold or leasehold, percentage of interest of the REIT in the property, remainder 

of the term in case of leasehold property 

vii. Date of inspection and date of valuation 

viii. Qualifications and assumptions 

ix. Method used for valuation  

x. Valuation standards adopted for valuation of real estate assets 

xi. Extent of valuer's investigations and nature and source of data to be relied upon 

xii. Purchase price of the property by the REIT(for existing properties of the REIT) 

xiii. Valuation of the property in the previous 3 years; (for existing properties of the 

REIT) 

xiv. Detailed valuation of the property as calculated by the valuer 

xv. Latest ready reckoner rate (as published by the state government)  

262[xvi. List of one-time sanctions/approvals which are obtained or pending 

xvii. List of up to date/overdue periodic clearances 

xviii. Statement of assets included 

xix. Estimates of already carried as well as proposed major repairs and 

improvements along with estimated time of completion 

xx. Revenue pendencies including local authority taxes associated with REIT asset 

and compounding charges, if any 

 
262 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 



 

83 

 

xxi. On-going 263[***] material litigations including tax disputes in relation to the 

assets, if any 

xxii. Vulnerability to natural or induced hazards that may not have been covered in 

town planning/ building control] 

f. any matters which may affect the property or its value  

g. a declaration by the valuer that: 

i. the valuer is competent to undertake the valuation 

ii. the valuer is independent and has prepared the report on a fair and unbiased basis 

iii. the valuer has valued the properties based on the valuation standards as specified 

under sub-regulation 10 of 264[regulation 21] of these Regulations  

 

 
263 Words “and closed” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
264 Substituted for “regulation 20” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, 

w.e.f. 15.12.2017 



 

84 

 

SCHEDULE VI 

[See Regulation 7(d)] 

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR REIT AND PARTIES TO THE REIT 

1. REIT and parties to the REIT shall conduct all affairs of the REIT in the interest of all 

the unit-holders of the REIT.   

2. REIT and parties to the REIT shall make adequate, accurate, explicit and timely 

disclosure of relevant material information to all unit holders, Designated Stock 

Exchanges and the Board in accordance with these Regulations and as may be 

specified by the Designated Stock Exchanges from time to time.  

3. REIT and parties to the REIT shall try to avoid conflicts of interest, as far as possible, 

in managing the affairs of the REIT and keep the interest of all unit holders paramount 

in all matters. In case such events cannot be avoided, it shall be ensured that 

appropriate disclosures are made to the unit-holders and they are fairly treated.  

4. The REIT and parties to the REIT shall ensure that the fees charged by them with 

respect to activity of the REIT shall be fair and reasonable.   

5. Manager shall carry out the business of the REIT and invest in accordance with the 

investment objectives stated in the Offer document and take investment decisions 

solely in the interest of unit holders.   

6. REIT, parties to the REIT and any third party appointed by the manager shall not use 

any unethical means to sell, market or induce any person to buy units of the REIT and 

where a third party appointed by the manager fails to comply with this condition, the 

manager shall be held liable for the same.   

7. REIT and parties to the REIT shall maintain high standards of integrity and fairness in 

all their dealings and in the conduct of their business,  

8. REIT and parties to the REIT shall render at all times high standards of service, 

exercise due diligence, ensure proper care and exercise independent professional 

judgment.  

9. REIT and parties to the REIT shall not make any exaggerated statement, whether oral 
or written, about their qualifications/capabilities/experience/ achievements.  

10. REIT and parties to the REIT shall be liable to the unit holders for their acts of 
commission or omissions, notwithstanding anything contained in any contract or 

agreement. 



 

85 

 

SCHEDULE VII 

[See Regulation 34] 

Amendment to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) 

Regulations, 2012 

In regulation 2, in sub-regulation (1), in clause (o), after the words “or body corporate” and 

before the words “in which an Alternative Investment Fund”, the words “or real estate 

investment trust or infrastructure investment trust” shall be inserted. 

 

 

 

U.K. SINHA 

CHAIRMAN 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

 


