1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (3[Issue and Listing of Municipal Debt Securities]) Regulations, 2015.
(2)These regulations shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
1 The words “ISSUE AND LISTING OF DEBT SECURITIES BY MUNICIPALITIES” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
2The words “debt securities by municipalities” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
3The words “Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
Page - 1 - of 68
2.(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined shall bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions shall be construed accordingly,–
(a)“Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);
(b)“advertisement” includes all forms of communication including notices, brochures, pamphlets, show cards, catalogues, hoardings, placards, posters, insertions in newspaper, cover pages of offer documents, pictures, films, etc., in any print media or electronic media or social media, radio, television programme;
(c)"Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under
section 3 of the Act;
4[(d) “constitution document” shall mean the Central or State Act, Rules, Regulations or charter under which the issuer has been established or incorporated or notified;
4 Clauses (d) to (q) substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to their substitutions, the clauses (d) to (q) read as follows,-
“(d) “corporate municipal entity” means a company as defined under Companies Act, 2013, which is a subsidiary of a municipality and which is set up for the purpose of raising funds for a specific municipality or group of municipalities;
(e)“debt securities” means a non-convertible debt securities which create or acknowledge indebtedness, and include debenture, bonds and such other securities of a municipality, or a corporate municipal entity, whether constituting a charge on the assets of such body or not;
(f)“designated stock exchange” means a recognised stock exchange in which securities of an issuer are listed or proposed to be listed and which is chosen by the issuer as a designated stock exchange for the purpose of a particular issue of debt securities under these regulations;
(g)"general obligation bonds" means debt securities where principal and interest are serviced through tax proceeds of the municipality.
(h)"issuer” means any municipality or a corporate municipal entity, which makes or proposes to make an issue of debt securities in accordance with these regulations or which has its securities listed on a recognised stock exchange or which seeks to list its debt securities on a recognised stock exchange;
(i)"municipality" means an institution of self-government constituted under Article 243Q of the Constitution of India;
(j)"national municipal accounts manual" means the municipal accounting manual formulated by the Ministry of Urban Development;
(k)"offer document” means prospectus or shelf prospectus and includes any such document or advertisement whereby the subscription to debt securities are invited by the issuer from public;
(l)"private placement" means any offer of debt securities or invitation to subscribe to debt securities to a select group of persons by a municipality through issue of a private placement offer letter to not more than two hundred persons, which shall not intend to result in, directly or indirectly, the debt securities becoming available for subscription or purchase by persons other than those receiving the offer or invitation:
Page - 2 - of 68
(e)“credit enhancement” shall mean any arrangement including subordination, insurance, letter of credit, over-collateralization, undertakings, guarantees, letter of comfort etc.;
(f)“designated stock exchange” shall mean a recognized stock exchange in which securities of an issuer are listed or proposed to be listed and which is chosen by the issuer as a designated stock exchange for the purpose of a particular issue of municipal debt securities under these regulations;
(g)“draft offer document” shall mean the draft offer document filed with the Board in relation to a public issue under these regulations;
(h)“fugitive economic offender” shall mean an individual who is declared a fugitive economic offender under section 12 of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act, 2018 (17 of 2018);
(i)“general purposes” include such identified purposes for which no specific amount is allocated or any amount so specified towards general purpose or any such purpose by whatever name called, in the draft offer document or the offer
document;
(j)“interest payment account” shall mean the account wherein the interest amount due to be paid by the borrower/issuer is deposited.
(k)“institutional investor” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital And Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;
(l)"issuer” shall mean any municipality or any Statutory Body or Board or corporation, Authority, Trust or Agency established or notified by any Central
Provided that for a corporate municipal entity, it shall mean an offer or invitation made in terms of section 42 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder, through issue of a private placement offer letter;
(m)“public issue” means an offer or invitation by an issuer to public to subscribe to the debt securities, which is not in the nature of a private placement;
(n)"revenue bonds" means debt securities which are serviced by revenues from one or more projects;
(o)“schedule" means a schedule annexed to these regulations;
(p)"shelf prospectus" means a prospectus in respect of which the securities or class of securities included therein are issued for subscription in one or more issues over a certain period without the issue of a further prospectus:
Provided that for a corporate municipal entity, it shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 31 of Companies Act, 2013;
(q)“specified” means specified by a general or special order or circular issued under the Act or these regulations.”
Page - 3 - of 68
or State Act or any Special Purpose Vehicle notified by the State Government or Central Government subject to the condition that it undertakes one or more functions that may be entrusted under Article 243W of the Constitution of India:
Provided that any structure set up under the Pooled Finance Development Fund Scheme of the Government of India or a body corporate to whom the Companies Act, 2013 applies, which offers or proposes to offer municipal debt securities in accordance with these regulations shall also be deemed to be an issuer subject to condition that it is set up by the State Government(s) or Central Government for the purpose of raising funds for a person performing one or more functions entrusted under Article 243W of the Constitution of India.
(m)“municipal debt securities” shall mean non-convertible debt securities which create or acknowledge indebtedness, and include debenture, bonds and such other securities of an issuer;
(n)"municipality" shall mean an institution of self-government constituted under Article 243Q of the Constitution of India;
(o)"national municipal accounts manual" shall mean the municipal accounting manual formulated by the Central Government from time to time;
(p)“no lien escrow account” shall mean the account created for the specific purpose of receiving and disbursing funds towards discharge of contractual obligations;
(q)"offer document” shall mean any document including an electronic document described or issued as an offer document or prospectus or shelf offer document and include any document or advertisement, whereby the subscription to municipal debt securities are invited by the issuer from public;
(r)“placement memorandum” shall mean any document including an electronic document which is serially numbered and copies of which are circulated only to select investors and is related to an issue made on private placement basis;
(s)"private placement" shall mean any offer of municipal debt securities or invitation to subscribe to municipal debt securities to a select group of persons by an issuer through issue of a placement memorandum to not more than two hundred persons in a financial year, which shall not intend to result in, directly
Page - 4 - of 68
or indirectly, the municipal debt securities becoming available for subscription or purchase by persons other than those receiving the offer or invitation: Provided that,-
i.for a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 applies, it shall mean an offer or invitation made in terms of section 42 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder, through issue of a placement memorandum;
ii.any offer or invitation made to qualified institutional buyers shall not be considered while calculating the limit of two hundred persons;
(t)“preliminary placement memorandum” shall mean the placement memorandum filed with the Board and the stock exchange(s) in relation to a private placement under these regulations;
(u)“public issue” shall mean an offer or invitation by an issuer to public to subscribe to the municipal debt securities, which is not in the nature of a private placement;
(v)“qualified institutional buyer” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital And Disclosure Requirements) Regulations), 2018;
3.These regulations shall apply to –
6[(a) issuance and listing of municipal debt securities by an issuer by way of public issuance; and
3A. Unless otherwise provided in these Regulations, an issuer making an offer of municipal debt securities shall satisfy the conditions of these Regulations as on the date of filing of the draft offer document or preliminary placement memorandum with the Board and also as on the date of filing the offer document or placement memorandum with the Board or upon registering the offer document or placement memorandum with the Registrar of Companies, as the case may be.]
4.No issuer shall be eligible to issue debt securities to public under these regulations, unless the following criteria are complied with:
(a)municipality, whether proposing to issue debt securities itself or through corporate municipal entity, should be eligible to raise funds under its constitution;
(b)accounts of municipality shall be prepared in accordance with National Municipal Accounts Manual or in accordance with similar Municipal Accounts Manual adopted by the respective State Government for at least three immediately preceding financial years;
(c)municipality shall have surplus income as per its Income and Expenditure Statement, in any of the immediately preceding three financial years or any other financial criteria as may be specified by the Board from time to time.
Provided that a corporate municipal entity shall not have negative net worth in any of immediately preceding three financial years;
(d)municipality shall not have defaulted in repayment of debt securities or loans obtained from banks or financial institutions, during the last three hundred and sixty five days: Provided that where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, the requirements at clauses (b) and (d) shall be complied by the municipality which is being financed;]
(e)no order or direction of restraint, prohibition or debarment by Board against the corporate municipal entity or its directors is in force;
(f)the corporate municipal entity, its promoter, group company or director(s), should not have been named in the list of the wilful defaulters published by the Reserve Bank of India or should not have defaulted of payment of interest or repayment of principal amount in respect of debt instruments issued by it to the public, if any.”
Page - 7 - of 68
iv.Accounting standards/policies, applicable to issuers, as specified in their constitution document.
(c)the issuer has not defaulted in repayment of debt securities or loans obtained from banks or financial institutions, during the preceding three hundred and sixty five days;
(d)no order or direction of restraint, prohibition or debarment by the Board is in force against the issuer or its promoters or its directors from accessing the securities market;
(e)an issuer or its promoter, group company or director(s) thereof, should not have been named in the list of the wilful defaulters;
(f)any of its promoter or director(s) has not been declared as a fugitive economic offender(s):
Provided that where the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 applies or is a Special Purpose Vehicle, which is set up for the purpose of raising funds for an person for performing one or more functions entrusted under Article 243W of the Constitution of India, the requirements at clauses (b) and (c) above shall be complied by the person being financed.]
4A. The issuer shall make an application to one or more recognized stock exchange for listing of such securities therein:
Provided that where the application is made to more than one recognised stock exchanges, the issuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange:
Explanation.-For any subsequent issue, the issuer may choose a different stock exchange as a designated stock exchange subject to the requirements of this regulation.
4B. The issuer shall obtain credit rating from at least one credit rating agency registered with the Board, which shall be disclosed in the offer document or placement memorandum, as applicable:
10 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
Page - 8 - of 68
Provided that where credit ratings are obtained from more than one credit rating agency, all the ratings, including the unaccepted ratings, shall be disclosed in the offer document or placement memorandum, as applicable.
4C. The issuer shall enter into an arrangement with a depository registered with the Board for dematerialisation of the municipal debt securities that are proposed to be issued, in accordance with the Depositories Act, 1996, rules and regulations made thereunder.
4D. The issuer shall appoint a debenture trustee registered with the Board in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993.
4E. (1) The issuer shall make an application for listing to one or more recognised stock exchanges in the manner specified by the Board.
(2)In case the issuer fails to obtain listing or trading permission from any of the recognized stock exchanges where the municipal debt securities were proposed to be listed, it shall refund the entire monies received within seven days of receipt of intimation from stock exchange or in case of multiple stock exchange(s) within seven days from the earliest intimation rejecting the application for listing of municipal debt securities, and if any such money is not repaid after the issuer becomes liable to repay it, the issuer shall be liable to repay that money with interest at the rate of fifteen percent per annum till such refund is made:
Provided that where the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013, applies every director of the company who is an officer in default shall also be jointly and severally liable to repay that money with interest.]
5.(1) An issuer making public issue of debt securities shall only issue revenue bonds.
(2)No issuer shall make a public issue of revenue bonds unless following conditions are complied with:
(a)it has made an application to one or more recognised stock exchanges for listing of such securities therein:
Provided that where the application is made to more than one recognised stock exchanges, the issuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange:
Provided further that where any of such stock exchanges have nationwide trading terminals, the issuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange;
Explanation.-For any subsequent public issue, the issuer may choose a different stock exchange as a designated stock exchange subject to the requirements of this regulation;
(b)it has obtained in-principle approval for listing of its revenue bonds on the recognised stock exchanges where the application for listing has been made;
(c)credit rating has been obtained from at least one credit rating agency registered with the Board and is disclosed in the offer document:
Provided that the revenue bonds intended to be issued shall have a minimum investment grade rating:
Provided further that where credit ratings are obtained from more than one credit rating agencies, all the ratings, including the unaccepted ratings, shall be disclosed in the offer document;
(d)it has entered into an arrangement with a depository registered with the Board for dematerialisation of the revenue bonds that are proposed to be issued to the public, in accordance with the Depositories Act, 1996 and regulations made there under.
(3)The revenue bonds shall have a minimum tenure of three years or such period as specified by the Board from time to time.
(4)The revenue bonds shall have a maximum tenure of thirty years or such period as specified by the Board from time to time.
(5)The issuer shall appoint one or more merchant bankers registered with the Board at least one of whom shall be a lead merchant banker.
(6)The issuer shall create a separate escrow account for servicing of revenue bonds with earmarked revenue.
(7)The issuer shall appoint a monitoring agency such as public financial institution or a scheduled commercial bank to monitor the earmarked revenue in the escrow account under sub-regulation (6): Provided that where the issuer is corporate municipal entity, it shall appoint a debenture trustee registered with the Board in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993 and Companies Act, 2013.”
Page - 10 - of 68
Provided that where the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 applies, it shall not have negative net worth in any of immediately preceding three financial years;
Provided that where the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 applies or is a Special Purpose Vehicle, which is set up for the purpose of raising funds for an person for performing one or more functions entrusted under Article 243W of the Constitution of India, the requirements at clause (a) shall be complied by the person being financed;
(b)Any other conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time.]
6.(1) The offer document shall contain true, fair and material disclosures, which are necessary for the subscribers of the revenue bonds to take an informed investment decision.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the issuer, which is a municipality, and the
lead merchant banker shall ensure that the offer document contains the following:
(a)disclosures specified in Schedule Iof these regulations;
(b)disclosures with respect to compliance with regulation 12;
(c)additional disclosures as may be specified by the Board:
Provided that in case of issuer being a corporate municipal entity, the issuer and the lead merchant banker shall ensure that the offer document contains the following:
(i)disclosures as specified in Companies Act, 2013 and Companies (Prospectus and Allotment of Securities) Rules, 2014;
(ii)disclosures specified in Schedule Iof these regulations;
(iii)disclosures with respect to compliance with regulation 12;
(iv)additional disclosures as may be specified by the Board.”
Page - 11 - of 68
6A. (1)The issuer shall appoint one or more merchant bankers, which are registered with the Board, as lead manager(s) to the issue.
(2)Where the issue is managed by more than one lead manager, the rights, obligations and responsibilities, relating to disclosures, allotment, refund and underwriting obligations among other things, if any, of each lead manager shall be predetermined and be disclosed in the draft offer document and the offer document.
(3)The issuer shall, in consultation with the lead manager(s), appoint other registered intermediaries after the lead manager(s) have independently assessed their capability to carry out their obligations.
(4)Where there is only one lead manager he shall not be an associate (as defined under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992) of the issuer.
(5)In case there are multiple lead managers, at least one lead manager to the issue shall not be an associate (as defined under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992) of the issuer
(6)If the lead manager is an associate of the issuer, it shall disclose itself as an associate of the issuer and its role shall be limited to marketing of the issue.]
13 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
Page - 12 - of 68
7. (1) No issuer shall make a public issue of revenue bonds unless a draft offer document has been filed with the designated stock exchange through the lead merchant banker:
Provided that where an issuer has filed a shelf prospectus, not more than four public issuances shall be made through a single shelf prospectus during a financial year.
(2)The draft offer document filed with the designated stock exchange shall be made public by posting the same on the website of the designated stock exchange for seeking public comments for a period of seven working days from the date of filing the draft offer document with such exchange.
(3)The draft offer document may also be displayed on the website of the issuer, merchant bankers and the stock exchanges where the revenue bonds are proposed to be listed.
(4)The lead merchant banker shall ensure that the draft offer document specifies the names and contact details of the compliance officer of the lead merchant banker, the officer concerned and the project officer, wherever applicable, of the issuer including their postal and email address, telephone and fax numbers.
(5)The lead merchant banker shall ensure that all comments received on the draft offer document are suitably addressed:
Provided that where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, the lead merchant banker shall ensure that all comments received on the draft offer document are suitably addressed prior to the filing of the final offer document with the Registrar of Companies.
(6)The issuer shall, before filing of draft offer documents with Board, obtain a “Viability Certificate“ or Detailed Project Appraisal Report (DPR) from a scheduled commercial bank or public financial institution stating that the project is financially viable, based on the estimates/assumptions available at that time.
(7)A copy of draft and final offer document shall also be forwarded to the Board for its records, simultaneously with filing of these documents with designated stock exchange.
(8)The issuer filing a shelf prospectus shall file a copy of an information memorandum with the recognised stock exchanges and the Board and in case of a corporate municipal entity, file the same with the Registrar of Companies.
(9)Where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, the information memorandum shall contain the disclosures specified in Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder and shall include disclosures regarding summary term sheet, material updations including revision in ratings, if any, along with the rating rationale and financial ratios specified in Schedule I.
(10)The lead merchant banker shall, prior to opening of the public issue, furnish to the Board a due diligence certificate as per Schedule II of these regulations:
Provided that where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, the lead merchant banker shall, prior to filing of the final offer document with the Registrar of Companies, furnish to the Board a due diligence certificate as per Schedule II of these regulations.
(11)The debenture trustee, wherever appointed under proviso to sub-regulation (7) of Regulation 5 shall, prior to the opening of the public issue, furnish to the Board a due diligence certificate as per Schedule III of these regulations.”
Page - 13 - of 68
(2)The lead manager shall submit the following to the Board along with the draft offer document, -
(a)certificate confirming that a written agreement has been entered into between the issuer and the lead manger;
(b)a due diligence certificate as per Form A of Schedule II.
(3)The Board may specify changes or issue observations, if any, on the draft offer document within twenty one days from the later of the following dates:
a)the date of receipt of the draft offer document under sub-regulation (1); or
b)the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the lead manager(s), where the Board has sought any clarification or additional information from them; or
c)the date of receipt of clarification or information from any regulator or agency, where the Board has sought any clarification or information from such regulator or agency; or
d)the date of receipt of a copy of in-principle approval letter issued by the stock exchange(s).
(4)The draft offer document filed with the designated stock exchange shall be made public by posting the same on the website of the designated stock exchange for seeking public comments for a period of fifteen days from the date of filing the draft offer document with such exchange and shall be available for download in PDF / HTML formats.
(5)The draft offer document shall also be displayed on the website of the issuer, lead manager(s) and the stock exchanges where the municipal debt securities are proposed to be listed.
(6)The lead manager shall ensure that the draft offer document specifies the names and contact details of the compliance officer of the lead manager, the officer concerned and the project officer, wherever applicable, of the issuer including their postal and email address, telephone and fax numbers.
(7)The lead manager shall after expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (4) file with the Board the details of the comments received by them or the issuer from the public in respect of the draft offer document, during the period stipulated in sub-regulation (4), alongwith the consequential changes, if any, that are required to be made in the draft offer document.
Page - 14 - of 68
(8) If the Board specifies any changes or issues observations, the issuer and lead manager(s) shall carry out such changes in the draft offer document and shall submit to the Board the updated draft offer document complying with the observations issued by the Board and highlighting all changes made in the draft offer document and before filing the offer document with the stock exchange or Registrar of Companies, as the case may be.
(9)The lead manager(s) shall submit the following documents to the Board after issuance of observations by the Board or after expiry of the period stipulated in sub- regulation (3) of this regulation if the Board has not issued observations:
a)a statement certifying that all changes, suggestions and observations made by the Board have been incorporated in the offer document or the placement memorandum;
b)a due diligence certificate as per Form B and Form C of Schedule II.
(10)A copy of draft and final offer document along-with a soft copy shall also be forwarded to the Board, simultaneously with filing of these documents with the designated stock exchange.
(11)The issuer filing a shelf offer document shall also file a copy of an information memorandum, containing all material facts including changes in the financial position as have occurred between the previous offer or first offer or subsequent offer of municipal debt securities, with the recognised stock exchanges and the Board and in case the issuer is a body corporate to whom the Companies Act, 2013 applies such issuer shall also file the same with the Registrar of Companies.
8.(1) The draft and final offer document shall be displayed on the websites of stock exchanges and shall be available for download in PDF / HTML formats.
(2) The draft offer document shall be filed with the designated stock exchange, for dissemination on its website prior to the opening of the issue:
Provided that where the issuer is a Corporate Municipal Entity, the final offer document shall be filed with the designated stock exchange, simultaneously with filing thereof with the Registrar of Companies, for dissemination on its website prior to the opening of the issue.
(3) Where any person makes a request for a physical copy of the offer document, the same shall be provided to him by the issuer or lead merchant banker.”
Page - 16 - of 68
(6)Any promotional or educative advertisement issued by the issuer during the subscription period shall not make any reference to the issue of 17[municipal debt securities] or be used for solicitation.
9.(1)The issuer may make an advertisement in a national daily with wide circulation, on or before the issue opening date and such advertisement shall, amongst other things, contain the disclosures as per Schedule IV.
(2) No issuer shall issue an advertisement which is misleading in material particular or which contain any information in a distorted manner or which is manipulative or deceptive.
(3) The advertisement shall be truthful, fair and clear and shall not contain a statement, promise or forecast which is untrue or misleading.
(4) Any advertisement issued by the issuer shall not contain any matters which are extraneous to the contents of the offer document.
16[***]
15Regulation 8 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 8 read as follows,-
10.(1) The issuer and 19[lead manager] shall ensure that:
(a)every application form issued by the issuer is accompanied by a copy of the 20[term sheet];
(b)the 21[term sheet] shall not contain matters which are extraneous to the contents of the 22[offer document];
(c)adequate space shall be provided in the application form to enable the investors to fill in various details like name, address, etc:
23[Provided that where the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 applies, the term sheet may be read as abridged prospectus]
11.(1) The issuer may decide the amount of minimum subscription which it seeks to raise by issue of 24[municipal] debt securities and disclose the same in the offer document:
16 Sub-regulation (5) omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its omission sub- regulation (5) read as follows,-
“(5) The advertisement shall urge the investors to invest only on the basis of information contained in the offer document.”
17The words “revenue bonds” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
18The words “abridged prospectus” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
19The words “lead merchant banker” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
20The words “abridged prospectus” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
21The words “abridged prospectus” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
22The word “prospectus” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
23Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
24Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
Page - 17 - of 68
Provided such minimum subscription limit shall not be less than seventy five per cent of the issue size.
(2)In the event of non-receipt of minimum subscription as specified above, all application moneys received in the public issue shall be refunded forthwith to the applicants, within twelve days from the date of the closure of the issue.
(3)In the event, there is a delay by the issuer in making the aforesaid refund, then the issuer shall refund the subscription amount along with interest at the rate of ten per cent. per annum for the delayed period.
11A. (1) Issuers shall be allowed to retain the over-subscription money up to 100% of the Base Issue size but not exceeding the rated size or any lower limit as specified in the offer document, if any.
(2)For the issuers filing a shelf offer document, oversubscription may be retained up to the total size of the shelf offer document.]
26[Allotment
25 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
26Regulation 12 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 12 read as follows,-
12.(1) Allotment in the public issue of municipal debt securities should be made on the basis of date of upload of each application into the electronic book of the stock exchange:
Provided that on and after the date of oversubscription, the allotments may be made to the applicants on a proportionate basis upto the oversubscription limit.
(2) The issuer and lead manager(s) shall ensure that the municipal debt securities are allotted and/or application monies are refunded or unblocked within such period as may be specified by the Board.
(3) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the allotment, credit of dematerialised securities and refund or unblocking of application monies, as may be applicable, are done electronically.
(4) Where the securities are not allotted and/or application monies are not refunded or unblocked within the period stipulated in sub-regulation (2) above, the issuer shall undertake to pay interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum to the investors and within such time as disclosed in the offer document and the lead manager(s) shall ensure the same.]
13.A public issue of 27[municipal debt securities] may be underwritten by an underwriter registered with the Board and in such a case adequate disclosures regarding underwriting arrangements shall be disclosed in the offer document.
Provided that where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, contribution of the concerned municipality, which is being financed by the corporate municipal entity, shall not be less than twenty per cent. of the project costs, which shall be contributed from its internal resources or grants.
(6)The issuer shall disclose the schedule of implementation of the project in the offer document in a tabular form and the funds raised by the issuer shall be utilized in accordance with the said schedule.”
27The words “revenue bonds” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
14A (1) Prior to making a private placement of municipal debt securities which are proposed to be listed, the issuer shall file the preliminary placement memorandum with the Board and stock exchange(s) through the merchant banker registered with the Board.
28The words “LISTING OF DEBT SECURITIES” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
29Regulation 14 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 14 read as follows,-
14.An issuer desirous of making an offer of debt securities to the public shall make an application for listing to one or more recognised stock exchanges:
Provided that in case of issuer being corporate municipal entity, such an application shall be made in terms of sub-section (1) of section 40 of the Companies Act, 2013.”
30Regulation 15 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 15 read as follows,-
15.The minimum subscription amount per investor shall be Rupees ten lakh.]
16.An issuer, proposing to issue debt securities shall maintain 100% asset cover sufficient to discharge the principal amount at all times for the debt securities issued.”
32Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
33Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
34Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
35Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
Page - 22 - of 68
(2)The offer document or 38[term sheet] or any advertisement issued by an issuer in connection with a public issue of debt securities shall not contain any false or misleading statement.
39[(3) The offer document or placement memorandum shall contain all material disclosures which are true, correct and adequate to enable the applicants to take an informed investment decision.]
17.The issuers may provide an option to buy-back the debt-securities at a value which shall not be less than the face value of the debt securities, from the investors 32[in the manner as specified by the Board from time to time]:
Provided in such cases, appropriate disclosure shall be made in the offer document
17A. The issuer may recall municipal debt securities prior to maturity date at its option (call) or provide such right of redemption prior to maturity date (put) to all the investors at their option in the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time:
Provided in all such cases, detailed disclosure shall be made in the offer document or placement memorandum.]
18.(1) The offer document 35[or term sheet] 36[or placement memorandum] shall not omit disclosure of a material fact which may make the statements made therein misleading 37[***].
31Regulation 16 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 16 read as follows,-
18A. (1) The funds raised from issue of municipal debt securities shall be used only for the purposes indicated under the objects stipulated in the offer document or placement memorandum.
(2)Where the proceeds of the issue are earmarked for a defined project or a set of projects, prior requisite approvals, if applicable shall be obtained from the concerned authorities.
(3)The issuers shall maintain a bank account in which the amount raised from the issue shall be immediately transferred after the closure of the issue and such amount shall only be utilised for the indicated project(s):
Provided further that the merchant banker to the issue, in case of private placement, shall confirm to the bankers to the issue by way of copies of listing and trading approvals that all formalities in connection with the issue have been completed and that the banker is free to release the money to the issuer or release the money for refund in case of failure of the issue.
(4)The issuer shall disclose the schedule of implementation of the project in the offer document or placement memorandum in a tabular form and the funds raised by the issuer shall be utilized in accordance with the said Schedule.
36 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
37The words “in light of the circumstances under which they are made” omitted by the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
38The words “abridged prospectus” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
39Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
40Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
Page - 23 - of 68
18B. The contribution of the issuer for each issuance of municipal debt securities shall not be less than twenty per cent. of the project costs, which shall be contributed from their internal resources or grants that may be in cash or kind.]
19.(1) The debentures shall be secured by the creation of a charge, on the properties or assets or the receivables of the issuer, having a value which is sufficient for the due repayment of the amount of debentures and interest thereon:
Provided that in case unsecured debentures are intended to be listed on stock exchange(s), then such debt securities shall either be backed by guarantee from State Government or Central Government or shall have a structured payment mechanism whereby the issuer shall deposit debt servicing amounts in the designated bank account at least 10 working days before due date of payment.
(2)The total value of secured debentures issued shall not exceed the market value of immovable property/other assets or receivables of the issuer, for which a charge shall be created.
(3)The issuer shall give an undertaking in the offer document that the assets on which charge is created are free from any encumbrances and if the assets are already charged to secure a debt, the permissions or consent to create second or pari pasu charge on the assets of the issuer have been obtained from the earlier creditor.
(4)The issue proceeds shall not be utilised until the documents for creation of security are executed.”
Page - 24 - of 68
20.(1) A trust deed for securing the issue of debentures shall be executed by the issuer in favour of the independent trustee or debenture trustee, as applicable, within three months of the closure of the issue.
(2) The trust deed shall contain such clauses as may be prescribed in Schedule IV of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993:
Provided that in case of private placement by a corporate municipal entity, the trust deed shall, in- addition, contain such clauses as prescribed under section 71 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules 2014.
(3) The trust deed shall not contain a clause which has the effect of:
(a)limiting or extinguishing the obligations and liabilities of the debenture trustees or the issuer in relation to any rights or interests of the investors;
(b)limiting or restricting or waiving the provisions of the Act, these regulations and circulars or guidelines issued by the Board;
(c)indemnifying the debenture trustees or the issuer for loss or damage caused by their act of negligence or commission or omission.”
Page - 25 - of 68
21.(1) The issuer shall redeem the debt securities in terms of the offer document.
(2)Where the issuer being a corporate municipal entity, desires to roll-over the debt securities issued, it shall do so only upon passing of a special resolution to that effect and give twenty one days notice of the proposed roll over to the holders of debt securities:
Provided where the issuer is a municipality, the notice shall be given to the holders of debt securities and stock exchanges where the debt securities are listed, upon the said decision:
Provided further that in case the issuer is a municipality, if the holders of debt securities do not provide consent for the proposed roll over within the notice period, the issuer shall redeem the debt securities of such holders.
(3)The notice referred to in sub- regulation (2) shall contain disclosures with regard to credit rating and rationale for roll-over.
(4)The issuer being a corporate municipal entity shall, prior to sending the notice to holders of debt securities, file a copy of the notice and proposed resolution with the stock exchanges where such securities are listed, for dissemination of the same to public on their websites.
(5)The debt securities issued can be rolled over subject to the following conditions:
(a)The roll-over is approved by a special resolution passed by the holders of debt securities through postal ballot having the consent of not less than 75% of the holders by value of such debt securities:
Provided that this condition shall not be applicable to the issuer, which is a municipality: Provided further that in case of issuer being a municipality, a period of seven days shall be granted to the holders of debt securities to provide their consent;
(b)atleast one rating is obtained from a credit rating agency within a period of six months prior to the due date of redemption and is disclosed in the notice referred to in sub-regulation (2);
(c)fresh trust deed shall be executed at the time of such roll over or the existing trust deed may be continued if the trust deed provides for such continuation ;
(d)adequate security shall be created or maintained in respect of such debt securities to be rolled– over.
(6)The issuer shall redeem the debt securities of all the holders, who have not given their positive consent to the roll-over.”
Page - 26 - of 68
(4)The issuer shall, prior to sending the notice to holders of municipal debt securities, file a copy of the notice and proposed resolution with the stock exchanges where such securities are listed, for dissemination of the same to the public on their websites.
(5)The municipal debt securities issued can be rolled over subject to the following conditions:
(a)the roll-over is approved by a special resolution passed by the holders of such municipal debt securities having the consent of not less than 75% of the holders by value of such municipal debt securities:
(b)at least one rating is obtained from a credit rating agency within a period of six months prior to the due date of redemption and is disclosed in the notice referred to in sub-regulation (2);
(c)fresh trust deed shall be executed at the time of such roll over or the existing trust deed may be continued if the trust deed provides for such continuation;
(6)The issuer shall redeem the municipal debt securities of all the holders, who have not given their positive consent to the roll-over.]
22.(1) For the redemption of the debentures issued by a corporate municipal entity, the issuer shall create debenture redemption reserve in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder.
(2) Where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity and the issuer has defaulted in payment of interest on debt securities or redemption thereof or in creation of security as per the terms of the issue of debt securities, any distribution of dividend shall require approval of the debenture trustees.”
Page - 27 - of 68
22A. The day count convention for calculation of interest payments for municipal debt securities shall be Actual/Actual and shall be calculated in manner as specified by the Board.
44Regulation 22 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 22 read as follows,-
23.(1) All the issuers making public issues of debt securities or seeking listing of debt securities issued on private placement basis, shall comply with conditions of listing including continuous disclosure and other requirements specified by the Board in general and those specified in Schedule V to these regulations.
(2) Where the issuer is corporate municipal entity, one-third of its Board shall comprise of independent directors, as defined in section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013.
(3) Every rating obtained by an issuer shall be periodically reviewed by the registered credit rating agency and any revision in the rating shall be promptly disclosed by the issuer to the stock exchange(s) where the debt securities are listed.
(4) In the event of credit rating being downgraded by two or more notches below the rating assigned at the time of issue, the issuer shall present to all bondholders, the reasons for fall in rating and the steps, if any, it intends to take to recover the rating.
(5) Any change in rating shall be promptly disseminated in such manner as the stock exchange where such securities are listed may determine from time to time.
(6) The issuer, the respective debenture trustees, wherever appointed, and stock exchanges shall disseminate all information and reports regarding debt securities including compliance reports filed by the issuers and the debenture trustees, if appointed, to the investors and the general public by placing them on their websites.
(7) The information referred to in sub-regulation (5) shall also be placed on the websites, if any, of the debenture trustee, the issuer and the stock exchanges.”
Page - 28 - of 68
(2)Where the issuer is a body corporate to whom the Companies Act, 2013 applies, one-third of its Board shall comprise of independent directors, as defined in section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013.
(3)Any change in rating shall be promptly disseminated in such manner as the stock exchange where such securities are listed may determine from time to time.
(4)The issuer, the respective debenture trustees, and stock exchanges shall disseminate all information and reports regarding municipal debt securities including compliance reports filed by the issuers and the debenture trustees, to the investors and the general public by placing them on their websites.
(5)The information referred to in sub-regulation (3) shall also be placed on the websites of the debenture trustee, the issuer and the stock exchanges.]
24.(1) An Issuer, being a municipality, shall prepare its accounts in accordance with the National Municipal Accounts Manual or in accordance with similar Municipal Accounts Manual adopted by the respective State Government:
Provided that in case of the Issuer being a corporate municipal entity, the accounts shall be prepared in accordance with section 129 and 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder.
(2) In case of the issuer being a municipality, the accounts of the issuer shall be audited by the persons appointed by the municipal corporations, as permissible under its constitution/state legislation governing the municipality:
Provided that in case of an issuer being a corporate municipal entity, the accounts of the issuer shall be audited by an auditor, in terms of section 139 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder:
(3) The bank account for issue proceeds and separate escrow account with earmarked revenues, shall be audited by persons so appointed by the municipality or the corporate municipal entity, within six months of the close of every financial year.”
Page - 29 - of 68
Provided that in case the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 applies, the accounts of the issuer shall be audited by an auditor, in terms of section 139 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules made thereunder.]
25.(1) The debt securities issued to the public or on a private placement basis, which are listed in recognised stock exchanges, shall be traded and such trades shall be cleared and settled in recognised clearing corporation subject to conditions specified by the Board.
(2) The trading lot for privately placed debt securities shall be rupees one lakh or such amount as may be specified by the Board.
(3) In case of trades of debt securities which have been made over the counter, such trades shall be reported on a recognised stock exchange having a nationwide trading terminal or such other platform as may be specified by the Board from time to time.
(4) The information in respect of issues such as issuer details, instrument details, ratings, rating migration, coupon, buyback, redemption details, shall be required to be reported to a common database with depositories or any other platform as may be specified by the Board.”
26.(1) The monitoring agency appointed under sub-regulation (7) of regulation 5 shall be vested with the requisite powers for protecting the interest of holders of debt securities.
(2) The monitoring agency shall inspect on half yearly basis, the utilization of issue proceeds in accordance with objects of the issue as specified in offer document and report, material deviation, if any, to the concerned stock exchange for public dissemination.
(3) The monitoring agency shall monitor earmarked revenue in the separate escrow account.
(4) The debenture trustee, wherever appointed, shall be vested with the requisite powers for protecting the interest of holders of debt securities:
Provided that , where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, such powers shall include a right to appoint a nominee director on the Board of the issuer, in consultation with institutional holders of such securities.
(5) the debenture trustee, wherever appointed, shall disclose the information to the investors and the general public by issuing a press release in any of the following events:
(a)default by issuer to pay interest on debt securities or redemption amount;
(b)failure to create a charge on the assets;
(c)revision of rating assigned to the debt securities.
(6)The debenture trustee, wherever appointed, shall carry out its duties and perform its functions under these regulations, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993, the trust deed and offer document, with due care, diligence and loyalty.
(7)The debenture trustee, wherever appointed, shall ensure disclosure of all material events on an ongoing basis
(8)The debenture trustees, wherever appointed, shall supervise the implementation of the conditions regarding creation of security for the debt securities and debenture redemption reserve.”
Page - 31 - of 68
(5)The debenture trustee shall supervise the implementation of the obligations cast in terms of provisions of these regulations.]
27.(1) The issuer shall disclose all the material facts in the offer documents issued or distributed to the public and shall ensure that all the disclosures made in the offer document are true, fair and adequate and there is no mis-leading or untrue statements or mis-statement in the offer document.
(2) The merchant banker(s) shall verify and confirm that the disclosures made in the offer documents are true, fair and adequate and ensure that the issuer is in compliance with these regulations.
(3) The merchant banker(s) shall ensure that all transaction specific disclosures required in Schedule I of these regulations are complied with:
Provided where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, merchant banker(s) shall also ensure that the disclosures under Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder are complied with.
(4) The issuer shall treat the applicants in a public issue of debt securities in a fair and equitable manner as per the procedures as may be specified by the Board.
(5) The issuer and merchant bankers shall be responsible for the due diligence in respect of assignments undertaken by them in respect of issue, offer and distribution of securities to the public.
(6) No person shall employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud in connection with issue or subscription or distribution of debt securities which are listed or proposed to be listed on a recognised stock exchange.
(7) The issuer and the merchant bankers shall ensure that the security created to secure the debt securities is adequate to ensure hundred per cent. asset cover for the debt securities.”
Page - 32 - of 68
27A. Without prejudice to the action under section 11, 11A, 11 B, 11D, sub- section (3) of section 12, Chapter VIA and section 24 of the Act or section 439 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Board may suo-motu or upon receipt of information or on completion or pendency of inspection or investigation, in the interests of the securities market, issue or pass such directions as it deems fit including any or all of the following:
(a)direct the issuer to refund the application monies to the applicants in a public issue;
(b)direct the persons concerned not to further deal in securities in any particular manner;
(c)direct the persons concerned not to access the securities market for a specified period;
(d)restrain the issuer or its promoters or directors from making further issues of securities;
(e)direct the person concerned to sell or divest the securities;
(f)direct the issuer or the depository not to give effect transfer or directing further freeze of transfer of securities;
(g)any other direction which Board may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the case:
Provided that the Board shall, either before or after issuing such directions, give an opportunity of being heard to the persons against whom the directions are issued or proposed to be issued:
Provided further that if any ex-parte direction is required to be urgent issued, the Board may give post decisional hearing to the affected person:
51 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
Page - 33 - of 68
27B. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis.
29.In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the provisions of these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue directions through guidance notes or circulars:
52Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17-04-2020.
53Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its omission, regulation 28 read as follows,-
28.Any contravention of these regulations shall be dealt with by the Board in accordance with the Act.”
Page - 34 - of 68
Provided that where any direction is issued by the Board in a specific case relating to interpretation or application of any provision of these regulations, it shall be done only after affording a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the concerned persons and after recording reasons for the direction.
30. The Board may, in the interest of investors or for the development of the securities market, relax the strict enforcement of any requirement of these regulations, if the Board is satisfied that, -
(a)the requirement is procedural or technical in nature; or
(b)the requirement may cause undue hardship to investors; or
(c)the disclosure requirement is not relevant for a particular industry or class of issuers;
or
(d)the non-compliance was caused due to factors beyond the control of the issuer ;or
(e)such relaxation will be in the interest of securities market.]
54 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.
1.(1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014.
1
(2)They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
(3)The provisions of these regulations shall apply to following, -
(i)employee stock option schemes;
(ii)employee stock purchase schemes;
(iii)stock appreciation rights schemes;
(iv)general employee benefits schemes; and
(v)retirement benefit schemes.
(4)The provisions of these regulations shall apply to any company whose shares are listed on a recognised stock exchange in India, and has a scheme:
(i)for direct or indirect benefit of employees; and
(ii)involving dealing in or subscribing to or purchasing securities of the company,
directly or indirectly; and
(iii)satisfying, directly or indirectly, any one of the following conditions:
a.the scheme is set up by the company or any other company in its group;
b.the scheme is funded or guaranteed by the company or any other company in its group;
c.the scheme is controlled or managed by the company or any other company in its group.
2.(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words, expressions and derivations therefrom shall have the meanings assigned to them as under-
2
a.“appreciation” means the difference between the market price of the share of a company on the date of exercise of stock appreciation right (SAR) or vesting of SAR, as the case may be, and the SAR price;
b.“associate company” shall have the same meaning as defined under section 2(6) of the
Companies Act, 2013;
c.“Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India or SEBI;
d."control" shall have the same meaning as defined under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
e.“emergency” means the need of funds by the trust to meet the commitment arising out of the objective of the scheme;
f.“employee” means, —
1[(i) a permanent employee of the company who has been working in India or outside India; or
(ii)a director of the company, whether a whole time director or not but excluding an independent director; or
(iii)an employee as defined in clause (i) or (ii) of a subsidiary, in India or outside India, or of a holding company of the company
1Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share based Employee Benefits) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015 (w.e.f. 18.09.2015). Prior to its substitution, clause (f) read as under:
“(i) a permanent employee of the company who has been working in India or outside India; or
(ii) a director of the company, whether a whole time director or not but excluding an independent director; or
(iii) an employee as defined in clauses (a) or (b) of a subsidiary, in India or outside India, or of a holding company of the company or of an associate company but does not include—
(a) an employee who is a promoter or a person belonging to the promoter group; or
(b) a director who either himself or through his relative or through any body corporate, directly or indirectly, holds more than ten percent of the outstanding equity shares of the company;”
3
but does not include—
(a)an employee who is a promoter or a person belonging to the promoter group; or
(b)a director who either himself or through his relative or through any body corporate, directly or indirectly, holds more than ten per cent of the outstanding equity shares of the company; ]
g.“employee stock option scheme or ESOS” means a scheme under which a company grants employee stock option directly or through a trust;
h.“employee stock purchase scheme or ESPS” means a scheme under which a company offers shares to employees, as part of public issue or otherwise, or through a trust where the trust may undertake secondary acquisition for the purposes of the scheme;
i.“exercise” means making of an application by an employee to the company or to the trust for issue of shares or appreciation in form of cash, as the case may be, against vested options or vested SARs in pursuance of the schemes covered under Part A or Part C of Chapter III of these regulations, as applicable;
j.“exercise period” means the time period after vesting within which an employee should exercise his right to apply for shares against the vested option or appreciation against vested SAR in pursuance of the schemes covered under Part A or Part C of Chapter III of these regulations, as applicable;
k.“exercise price” means the price, if any, payable by the employee for exercising the option or SAR granted to him in pursuance of the schemes covered under Part A or Part C of Chapter III of these regulations, as the case may be;
l.“general employee benefits scheme or GEBS” means any scheme of a company framed in accordance with these regulations, dealing in shares of the company or the shares of its listed holding company, for the purpose of employee welfare including healthcare benefits, hospital care or benefits, or benefits in the event of sickness, accident,
4
disability, death or scholarship funds, or such other benefit as specified by such company;
m.“grant” means the process by which the company issues options, SARs, shares, or any other benefits under any of the schemes;
n.“grant date” means the date on which the compensation committee approves the grant;
o.“group” means two or more companies which, directly or indirectly, are in a position to, —
(i)exercise twenty-six per cent. or more of the voting rights in the other company; or
(ii)appoint more than fifty per cent. of the members of the board of directors in the other company; or
(iii)control the management or affairs of the other company;
p.“independent director” shall have the same meaning assigned to it in Clause 49 of the equity Listing Agreement as prescribed by the Board;
q.“key managerial personnel” shall have the same meaning as defined under section
2(51) of the Companies Act, 2013;
r.“market price” means the latest available closing price on a recognised stock exchange on which the shares of the company are listed on the date immediately prior to the relevant date.
Explanation.- If such shares are listed on more than one stock exchange, then the closing price on the stock exchange having higher trading volume shall be considered as the market price;
s.“option” means the option given to an employee which gives him a right to purchase or subscribe at a future date, the shares offered by the company, directly or indirectly, at a pre-determined price;
5
t. “option grantee” means an employee having a right but not an obligation to exercise an option in pursuance of ESOS;
u.“promoter” shall have the same meaning assigned to it under the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009;
v.“promoter group” shall have the same meaning assigned to it under the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009:
Provided where the promoter or promoter group of a company is a body corporate, the promoters of that body corporate shall also be deemed to be promoters of such company;
w.“relative” shall have the same meaning as defined under section 2(77) of the Companies Act, 2013;
x.“relevant date” means,-
(i). in the case of grant, the date of the meeting of the compensation committee on which the grant is made; or
(ii). in the case of exercise, the date on which the notice of exercise is given to the company or to the trust by the employee;
y.“retirement benefit scheme or RBS” means a scheme of a company, framed in accordance with these regulations, dealing in shares of the company or the shares of its listed holding company, for providing retirement benefits to the employees subject to compliance with existing rules and regulations as applicable under laws relevant to retirement benefits in India;
6
z."SAR grantee” means an employee to whom SAR is granted;
za. “SAR price” means the base price defined on the grant date of SAR for the purpose of computing appreciation;
zb. “scheme” means a scheme of a company proposing to provide share based benefits to its employees, which may be implemented and administered directly by such company or through a trust, in accordance with these regulations;
zc. “secondary acquisition” means acquisition of existing shares of the company by the trust on the platform of a recognised stock exchange for cash consideration;
zd. “share” means equity shares and securities convertible into equity shares and shall include American Depository Receipts (ADRs), Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) or other depository receipts representing underlying equity shares or securities convertible into equity shares;
ze. “stock appreciation right or SAR” means a right given to a SAR grantee entitling him to receive appreciation for a specified number of shares of the company where the settlement of such appreciation may be made by way of cash payment or shares of the company.
Explanation.- An SAR settled by way of shares of the company shall be referred to as equity settled SAR;
zf. “stock appreciation right scheme or SAR scheme” means a scheme under which a company grants SAR to employees;
zg. “trust” means a trust established under the provisions of Indian Trusts Act, 1882 including any statutory modification or re-enactment thereof, for implementing any of the schemes covered by these regulations;
3. (1) A company may implement schemes either directly or by setting up an irrevocable trust(s):
Provided that if the scheme is to be implemented through a trust the same has to be decided upfront at the time of taking approval of the shareholders for setting up the schemes:
Provided further that if the scheme involves secondary acquisition or gift or both, then it is mandatory for the company to implement such scheme(s) through a trust(s).
(2)A company may implement several schemes as permitted under these regulations through a single trust:
8
Provided that such single trust shall keep and maintain proper books of account, records and documents, for each such scheme so as to explain its transactions and to disclose at any point of time the financial position of each scheme and in particular give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of each scheme.
(3)SEBI may specify the minimum provisions to be included in the trust deed under which the trust is formed, and such trust deed and any modifications thereto shall be mandatorily filed with the stock exchange in India where the shares of the company are listed.
(4)A person shall not be appointed as a trustee, if he-
i.is a director, key managerial personnel or promoter of the company or its holding, subsidiary or associate company or any relative of such director, key managerial personnel or promoter; or
ii.beneficially holds ten percent or more of the paid-up share capital of the company.
Provided where individuals or ‘one person companies’ as defined under the Companies Act, 2013 are appointed as trustees, there shall be a minimum of two such trustees, and in case a corporate entity is appointed as a trustee, then it may be the sole trustee.
(5)The trustees of a trust, which is governed under these regulations, shall not vote in respect of the shares held by such trust, so as to avoid any misuse arising out of exercising such voting rights.
(6)The trustee should ensure that appropriate approval from the shareholders has been obtained by the company in order to enable the trust to implement the scheme(s) and undertake secondary acquisition for the purposes of the scheme(s).
(7)The trust shall not deal in derivatives, and shall undertake only delivery based transactions for the purposes of secondary acquisition as permitted by these regulations.
9
(8)Subject to the requirements of Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies (Share Capital and Debenture) Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, as may be applicable, the company may lend monies to the trust on appropriate terms and conditions to acquire the shares either through new issue or secondary acquisition, for the purposes of implementation of the scheme(s).
(9)For the purposes of disclosures to the stock exchange, the shareholding of the trust shall be
shown as ‘non-promoter and non-public’ shareholding.
Explanation: For the removal of doubts, it is clarified that shares held by the trust shall not form part of the public shareholding which needs to be maintained at a minimum of twenty five per cent as prescribed under Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957.
(10)Secondary acquisition in a financial year by the trust shall not exceed two per cent of the paid up equity capital as at the end of the previous financial year.
(11)The total number of shares under secondary acquisition held by the trust shall at no time exceed the below mentioned prescribed limits as a percentage of the paid up equity capital as at the end of the financial year immediately prior to the year in which the shareholder approval is obtained for such secondary acquisition:
Sr. No.
Particulars
Limit
 
 
 
 
for the schemes enumerated in Part A,
 
A
Part B or Part C of Chapter III of these
5%
 
regulations
 
 
 
 
 
for the schemes enumerated in Part D,
 
B
or Part E of Chapter III of these
2%
 
regulations
 
 
 
 
C
for all the schemes in aggregate
5%
 
 
 
10
Explanation 1.- The above limits shall automatically include within their ambit the expanded capital of the company where such expansion has taken place on account of corporate action including issue of bonus shares, split or rights issue.
Explanation 2.- If a company has multiple trusts and schemes, the aforesaid ceiling limit shall be applicable for all such trusts and schemes taken together at the company level and not at the level of individual trust or scheme.
Explanation 3.- The above ceiling limit will not be applicable where shares are allotted to the trust by way of new issue or gift from promoter or promoter group or other shareholders.
Explanation 4.- In the event that the options, shares or SAR granted under any of the schemes exceeds the number of shares that the trust may acquire through secondary acquisition, then such shortfall of shares shall be made up by the company through new issue of shares to the trust in accordance with the provisions of new issue of shares under the applicable laws.
(12)The un-appropriated inventory of shares which are not backed by grants, acquired through secondary acquisition by the trust under Part A, Part B or Part C of Chapter III of these regulations, shall be appropriated within a reasonable period which shall not extend beyond the end of the subsequent financial year:
Provided that if such trust(s) existing as on the date of notification of these regulations are not able to appropriate the un-appropriated inventory within one year of such notification, the same shall be disclosed to the stock exchange(s) at the end of such period and then the same shall be sold on the recognized stock exchange(s) where shares of the company are listed, within a period of five years from the date of notification of these regulations.
(13)The trust shall be required to hold the shares acquired through secondary acquisition for a minimum period of six months except where they are required to be transferred in the
11
circumstances enumerated in clause (b) of sub-regulation (14) of this regulation2[, whether off- market or on the platform of stock exchange.]
(14)The trust shall be permitted to undertake off-market transfer of shares only under the following circumstances:
(a). transfer to the employees pursuant to scheme(s);
(b).when participating in open offer under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, or when participating in buy-back, delisting or any other exit offered by the company generally to its shareholders.
(15)The trust shall not become a mechanism for trading in shares and hence shall not sell the shares in secondary market except under the following circumstances:
(a). cashless exercise of options under the scheme covered by Part A of Chapter III of these regulations;
(b).on vesting or exercise, as the case may be, of SAR under the scheme covered by Part C of Chapter III of these regulations;
(c). in case of emergency for implementing the schemes covered under Part D and Part E of Chapter III of these regulations, and for this purpose -
(i).
the trustee shall record the reasons for such sale; and
(ii). money so realised on sale of shares shall be utilised within a definite time period as stipulated under the scheme or trust deed.
(d).participation in buy-back or open offers or delisting offers or any other exit offered by the company generally to its shareholders, if required;
2Sub. by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share based Employee Benefits) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015 for “.”( w.e.f 18.09.2015)
12
(e). for repaying the loan, if the un-appropriated inventory of shares held by the trust is not appropriated within the timeline as provided under sub-regulation (12) of this regulation;
(f). winding up of the scheme(s); and
(g).based on approval granted by SEBI to an applicant, for the reasons recorded in writing in respect of the schemes covered by Part A or Part B or Part C of Chapter III of these regulations, upon payment of a non-refundable fee of rupees one lakh along with the application 3[by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or] by way of a banker’s cheque or demand draft payable at Mumbai in favour of the Board.
4.An employee shall be eligible to participate in the schemes of the company as determined by the compensation committee.
Explanation.- Where such employee is a director nominated by an institution as its representative on the board of directors of the company –
(i)The contract or agreement entered into between the institution nominating its employee as the director of a company, and the director so appointed shall, inter alia, specify the following:
3Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017 (w.e.f. 6-3-2017).
13
a.whether the grants by the company under its scheme(s) can be accepted by the said employee in his capacity as director of the company;
b.that grant if made to the director, shall not be renounced in favour of the nominating institution; and
c.the conditions subject to which fees, commissions, other incentives, etc. can be accepted by the director from the company.
(ii)the institution nominating its employee as a director of a company shall file a copy of the contract or agreement with the said company, which shall, in turn file the copy with all the stock exchanges on which its shares are listed.
5.(1) A company shall constitute a compensation committee for administration and superintendence of the schemes:
Provided that the company may designate such of its other committees as compensation committee if they fulfil the criteria as provided in sub-regulation (2) of this regulation:
Provided further that where the scheme is being implemented through a trust the compensation committee shall delegate the administration of such scheme(s) to the trust.
(2)The compensation committee shall be a committee of such members of the board of directors of the company as provided under section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013, as amended or modified from time to time.
(3)The compensation committee shall, inter alia, formulate the detailed terms and conditions of the schemes which shall include the provisions as specified by Board in this regard.
(4)The compensation committee shall frame suitable policies and procedures to ensure that there is no violation of securities laws, as amended from time to time, including Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 and Securities and
14
Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to the Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 by the trust, the company and its employees, as applicable.
6.(1) No scheme shall be offered to employees of a company unless the shareholders of the company approve it by passing a special resolution in the general meeting.
(2)The explanatory statement to the notice and the resolution proposed to be passed by shareholders for the schemes shall include the information as specified by SEBI in this regard.
(3)Approval of shareholders by way of separate resolution in the general meeting shall be obtained by the company in case of:
(a). Secondary acquisition for implementation of the schemes. Such approval shall mention the percentage of secondary acquisition (subject to limits specified under these regulations) that could be undertaken;
(b).Secondary acquisition by the trust in case the share capital expands due to capital expansion undertaken by the company including preferential allotment of shares or qualified institutions placement, to maintain the five per cent. cap as prescribed under sub-regulation (11) of regulation 3 of such increased capital of the company;
(c). Grant of option, SAR, shares or other benefits, as the case may be, to employees of subsidiary or holding 4[***] company;
(d).Grant of option, SAR, shares or benefits, as the case may be, to identified employees, during any one year, equal to or exceeding one per cent. of the issued capital (excluding outstanding warrants and conversions) of the company at the time of grant of option, SAR, shares or incentive, as the case may be.
4The words “or associate” omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share based Employee Benefits) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015 (w.e.f 18.09.2015)
15
7.(1) The company shall not vary the terms of the schemes in any manner, which may be detrimental to the interests of the employees:
Provided that the company shall be entitled to vary the terms of the schemes to meet any regulatory requirements.
(2)Subject to the proviso to sub-regulation (1), the company may by special resolution in a general meeting vary the terms of the schemes offered pursuant to an earlier resolution of the general body but not yet exercised by the employee provided such variation is not prejudicial to the interests of the employees.
(3)The provisions of regulation 6 shall apply to such variation of terms as they apply to the original grant of option, SAR, shares or other benefits, as the case may be.
(4)The notice for passing special resolution for variation of terms of the schemes shall disclose full details of the variation, the rationale therefore, and the details of the employees who are beneficiaries of such variation.
(5)A company may reprice the options, SAR or shares, as the case may be which are not exercised, whether or not they have been vested if the schemes were rendered unattractive due to fall in the price of the shares in the stock market:
Provided that the company ensures that such repricing shall not be detrimental to the interest of the employees and approval of the shareholders in general meeting has been obtained for such repricing.
Winding up of the schemes.
8.In case of winding up of the schemes being implemented by a company through trust, the excess monies or shares remaining with the trust after meeting all the obligations, if any, shall be utilised for repayment of loan or by way of distribution to employees as recommended by the compensation committee.
9.(1) Option, SAR or any other benefit granted to an employee under the regulations shall not be transferable to any person.
(2)No person other than the employee to whom the option, SAR or other benefit is granted shall be entitled to the benefit arising out of such option, SAR, benefit etc. :
Provided that in case of ESOS or SAR, under cashless exercise, the company may itself fund or permit the empanelled stock brokers to fund the payment of exercise price which shall be adjusted against the sale proceeds of some or all the shares, subject to the provisions of the applicable law or regulations.
(3)The option, SAR, or any other benefit granted to the employee shall not be pledged, hypothecated, mortgaged or otherwise alienated in any other manner.
(4)In the event of death of the employee while in employment, all the options, SAR or any other benefit granted to him under a scheme till such date shall vest in the legal heirs or nominees of the deceased employee.
(5)In case the employee suffers a permanent incapacity while in employment, all the options, SAR or any other benefit granted to him under a scheme as on the date of permanent incapacitation, shall vest in him on that day.
(6)In the event of resignation or termination of the employee, all the options, SAR, or any other benefit which are granted and yet not vested as on that day shall expire:
17
Provided that an employee shall, subject to the terms and conditions formulated by the compensation committee under the sub-regulation (3) of regulation 5, be entitled to retain all the vested options, SAR, or any other benefit covered by these regulations.
(7)In the event that an employee who has been granted benefits under a scheme is transferred or deputed to an associate company prior to vesting or exercise, the vesting and exercise as per the terms of grant shall continue in case of such transferred or deputed employee even after the transfer or deputation.
10.In case new issue of shares is made under any scheme, shares so issued shall be listed immediately in any recognised stock exchange where the existing shares are listed, subject to the following conditions:
(a). Scheme is in compliance with these regulations;
(b).A statement as specified by SEBI in this regard, is filed and the company has obtained an in-principle approval from the stock exchanges;
(c). As and when an exercise is made, the company notifies the concerned stock exchange as per the statement as specified by SEBI in this regard.
11.The shares arising after the initial public offering (“IPO”) of an unlisted company, out of options or SAR granted under any scheme prior to its IPO to the employees shall be listed immediately upon exercise in all the recognised stock exchanges where the shares of the company are listed subject to compliance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 and where applicable, sub-regulation (1) of regulation 12.
18
12.(1) No company shall make any fresh grant which involves allotment or transfer of shares to its employees under any schemes formulated prior to its IPO and prior to the listing of its equity shares ('pre-IPO scheme’) unless:
(i)Such pre-IPO scheme is in conformity with these regulations; and
(ii)Such pre-IPO scheme is ratified by its shareholders subsequent to the IPO.
Provided that the ratification under clause (ii) may be done any time prior to grant of new options or shares or SAR under such pre-IPO scheme.
(2)No change shall be made in the terms of options or shares or SAR issued under such pre- IPO schemes, whether by repricing, change in vesting period or maturity or otherwise unless prior approval of the shareholders is taken for such a change, except for any adjustments for corporate actions made in accordance with these regulations.
(3)For listing of shares issued pursuant to ESOS, ESPS or SAR , the company shall obtain the in-principle approval of the stock exchanges where it proposes to list the said shares.
(4)When holding company issues option, share, SAR or benefits to the employee of its subsidiary, the cost incurred by the holding company for issuing such option, share, SAR or benefits shall be disclosed in the 'notes to accounts' of the financial statements of the subsidiary company.
(5)In a case falling under sub-regulation (4), if the subsidiary reimburses the cost incurred by the holding company in granting option, share, SAR or benefits to the employees of the subsidiary, both the subsidiary as well as the holding company shall disclose the payment or receipt, as the case may be, in the ‘notes to accounts’ to their financial statements.
19
13.In the case of every company that has passed a resolution for the schemes under these regulations, the board of directors shall at each annual general meeting place before the shareholders a certificate from the auditors of the company that the scheme(s) has been implemented in accordance with these regulations and in accordance with the resolution of the company in the general meeting.
14.In addition to the information that a company is required to disclose, in relation to employee benefits under the Companies Act, 2013, the board of directors of such a company shall also disclose the details of the scheme(s) being implemented, as specified by SEBI in this regard.
15.(1) Any company implementing any of the share based schemes shall follow the requirements of the 'Guidance Note on Accounting for employee share-based Payments' (Guidance Note) or Accounting Standards as may be prescribed by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) from time to time, including the disclosure requirements prescribed therein.
(2)Where the existing Guidance Note or Accounting Standard do not prescribe accounting treatment or disclosure requirements for any of the schemes covered under these regulations then the company shall comply with the relevant Accounting Standard as may be prescribed by the ICAI from time to time.
16.(1) Subject to the provisions of these regulations, the ESOS shall contain the details of the manner in which the scheme will be implemented and operated.
(2)No ESOS shall be offered unless the disclosures, as specified by Board in this regard, are made by the company to the prospective option grantees.
17.The company granting option to its employees pursuant to ESOS will have the freedom to determine the exercise price subject to conforming to the accounting policies specified in regulation 15.
18.(1) There shall be a minimum vesting period of one year in case of ESOS:
Provided that in case where options are granted by a company under an ESOS in lieu of options held by a person under an ESOS in another company which has merged or amalgamated with that company, the period during which the options granted by the transferor company were held by him shall be adjusted against the minimum vesting period required under this sub-regulation.
21
(2)The company may specify the lock-in period for the shares issued pursuant to exercise of option.
19.The employee shall not have right to receive any dividend or to vote or in any manner enjoy the benefits of a shareholder in respect of option granted to him, till shares are issued upon exercise of option.
20.The amount payable by the employee, if any, at the time of grant of option, -
(a). may be forfeited by the company if the option is not exercised by the employee within the exercise period; or
(b).may be refunded to the employee if the options are not vested due to non-fulfilment of conditions relating to vesting of option as per the ESOS.
PART B: EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE SCHEME (ESPS)
21.Subject to the provisions of these regulations, the ESPS scheme shall contain the details of the manner in which the scheme will be implemented and operated.
22.(1) The company may determine the price of shares to be issued under an ESPS, provided they conform to the provisions of accounting policies under regulation 15.
22
(2)Shares issued under an ESPS shall be locked-in for a minimum period of one year from the date of allotment:
Provided that in case where shares are allotted by a company under an ESPS in lieu of shares acquired by the same person under an ESPS in another company which has merged or amalgamated with the first mentioned company, the lock-in period already undergone in respect of shares of the transferor company shall be adjusted against the lock-in period required under this sub-regulation.
(3)If ESPS is part of a public issue and the shares are issued to employees at the same price as in the public issue, the shares issued to employees pursuant to ESPS shall not be subject to lock-in.
PART C : STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS SCHEME (SARS)
23.(1) Subject to the provisions of these regulations, the SAR scheme shall contain the details of the manner in which the scheme will be implemented and operated.
(2)Subject to the provisions of these regulations, a company shall have the freedom to implement cash settled or equity settled SAR scheme:
Provided that in case of equity settled SAR scheme, if the settlement results in fractional shares, then the consideration for fractional shares should be settled in cash.
(3)No SAR shall be offered unless the disclosures, as specified by Board in this regard, are made by the company to the prospective SAR grantees.
24.(1) There shall be a minimum vesting period of one year in case of SAR scheme: 23
Provided that in a case where SAR is granted by a company under a SAR scheme in lieu of SAR held by the same person under a SAR scheme in another company which has merged or amalgamated with the first mentioned company, the period during which the SAR granted by the transferor company were held by the employee shall be adjusted against the minimum vesting period required under this sub-regulation.
25.The employee shall not have right to receive dividend or to vote or in any manner enjoy the benefits of a shareholder in respect of SAR granted to him.
PART D : GENERAL EMPLOYEE BENEFITS SCHEME (GEBS)
26.(1) Subject to the provisions of these regulations, GEBS shall contain the details of the scheme and the manner in which the scheme shall be implemented and operated.
(2)At no point in time, the shares of the company or shares of its listed holding company shall exceed ten per cent of the book value or market value or fair value of the total assets of the scheme, whichever is lower, as appearing in its latest balance sheet for the purposes of GEBS.
PART E: RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEME (RBS)
27.(1) Retirement benefit scheme may be implemented by a company provided it is in compliance with these regulations, and provisions of any other law in force in relation to retirement benefits.
24
(2)The retirement benefit scheme shall contain the details of the benefits under the scheme and the manner in which the scheme shall be implemented and operated.
27A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis.
28.(1) In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation and application of the provisions of these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue clarifications through guidance notes or circulars.
(2)The Board shall have power to specify such disclosure and process requirements through guidance notes or circulars, as may be necessary for protection of interest of investors, securities market and for regulation of all schemes, by listed companies for the benefit of their employees, involving dealing, directly or indirectly, in shares and matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
29.(1) The Board may suo motu or on an application made by a company, for reasons recorded in writing, grant relaxation from strict compliance with any of these regulations subject to such conditions as the Board deems fit to impose in the interests of investors in securities and the securities market.
(2) A company making an application under sub-regulation (1), shall pay a non-refundable fee of rupees one lakh 6[by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or] by way of a banker's cheque or demand draft payable at Mumbai in favour of the Board.
6Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017 (w.e.f. 6-3-2017).
26
30.The Board may issue any direction or order or undertake any measure in the interests of the investors or the securities market, and deal with any contravention of these regulations, in exercise of its powers under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) or the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) and any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto.
31.(1) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 1999 are hereby repealed.
(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, -
(a)prohibition on acquiring securities from the secondary market as provided in SEBI circular CIR/CFD/POLICYCELL/3/2014 dated June 27, 2014 shall continue till the existing schemes are aligned with these regulations;
(b)all listed companies having existing schemes to which these regulations apply are required to comply with these regulations in their entirety within one year of the same coming into effect, subject to the following exceptions:
(i)trusts holding shares, for the purposes of implementing employee benefits schemes of the company, beyond the permissible limits as provided under these regulations, shall have a period of five years to bring down its holding in shares to such limits;
(ii)trusts holding shares, for the purposes of implementing GEBS or RBS, which exceed ten per cent. of the total value of the total assets of the trust(s) as provided
27
under these regulations, shall have a period of five years to bring down its holding in shares to such limits;
(iii)for the purposes of sub-regulation (9) of regulation 3 and ensuring compliance with the requirement of maintaining adequate public shareholding, those trusts holding shares of the company which are shown either as ‘promoter’ or ‘public’ shareholding, shall be permitted to continue to be shown them as such for a further period of only 7[three] years;
(iv)8[trustees of a trust may continue to vote in respect of shares held by such trust for a period of three years, commencing from 28th of October, 2014.]
(c)the previous operation of the repealed guidelines or anything duly done or suffered thereunder, any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under the repealed guidelines, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against the repealed guidelines, or any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid, shall remain unaffected as if the repealed guidelines had never been repealed;
(d)anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken including any adjudication, enquiry or investigation commenced or show-cause notice issued under the repealed guidelines prior to such repeal, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of these regulations; and
(e)after the repeal of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 1999, any reference thereto in any other regulations made, guidelines or circulars issued thereunder by the
7 Subs. by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share based Employee Benefits) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015 for “five” (w.e.f 18.09.2015)
8Ins. by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share based Employee Benefits) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015, Regulation (w.e.f 18.09.2015)
28
Board shall be deemed to be a reference to the corresponding provisions of these
regulations.
U. K. SINHA
CHAIRMAN
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Appointment of Administrator and Procedure for Refunding to the Investors) Regulations, 2018.
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their notification in the Official Gazette.
2.(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,-
a)“Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 [15 of 1992];
Page 1 of 12
b)“Administrator” means a person registered with the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India as an Insolvency Resolution Professional and who has been engaged by the Recovery Officer for the purposes of these regulations.
c)“advertisement” includes -
(i)notices, brochures, pamphlets, circulars, show-cards, catalogues, hoardings, placards, posters, insertions in newspapers, pictures, films and documentaries; and
(ii)any publicity through print medium, radio, television programmes or electronic media;
d)“auditor” means a person qualified to audit the accounts of companies under the Companies Act, 2013;
e)“Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 of the Act;
f)"certificate" means the statement drawn up by the Recovery Officer under section 28A of the Act or section 23JB of the Securities Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956 or section 19-IB of the Depositories Act, 1996 and shall not include a sale certificate;
g)"defaulter" for the purposes of these regulations, means a person who has failed to comply with an order of the Board to refund monies to the investors or an order of the Board for disgorgement within the specified time period and who is mentioned as a defaulter in the certificate;
h)“e-auction” means the public auction conducted through electronic mode;
i)“e-auction agency” means a company providing an e-auction platform which is engaged by the Administrator for the purposes of auctioning and selling properties attached by the Recovery Officer;
j)“investor” means the person, whether identified or not, in whose favour the refund of monies had been directed by the Board;
k)"property" means and includes assets of any kind, whether movable or immovable, tangible or intangible, corporeal or incorporeal and includes securities, bank accounts, deposits, any right or interest or legal documents or instruments evidencing title to or interest in the property and where the property is capable of conversion into some other form, then the property in the converted form and also includes the proceeds from the property.
Page 2 of 12
m)“Recovery Officer” means an officer of the Board, who is authorised by a general or special order in writing, to exercise the powers of a recovery officer under section 28A of the Act or section 23JB of the Securities Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956 or section 19-IB of the Depositories Act, 1996;
n)“refund order” means a direction of the Board, issued under the Act or the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or the Depositories Act, 1996, to refund monies to the investors;
o)“recovery proceedings” means the proceedings for recovery of dues initiated by a recovery officer under section 28A of the Act or section 23JB of the Securities Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956 or section 19-IB of the Depositories Act, 1996;
p)“registered valuer” shall have the meaning assigned to it under the Companies
(Registered Valuers and Valuation) Rules, 2017 or any other statutory modification thereof;
3. (1) These regulations shall be applicable for all or any of the following:
a.appointment of Administrator pursuant to failure to comply with disgorgement or refund orders passed by the Board;
b.sale of properties attached by the Recovery Officer of the Board under the Act;
c.collection of claim documents and verification of claims of investors for the purpose of effecting refunds;
d.refund of monies to the investors pursuant to disgorgement or refund orders passed by the Board;
e.recovery of disgorgement amounts directed by the Board;
f.any act incidental or connected thereto.
(2)Unless otherwise specifically ordered, these regulations shall not be applicable to cases where the Securities Appellate Tribunal or a Court has appointed an administrator or any other person for the purposes of recovery and/or repayment to investors.
4.For the purposes of these regulations, the Board shall, after attachment of the properties of the defaulter by the Recovery Officer, appoint an Administrator in the manner specified.
5.(1) The Administrator shall be a person registered with the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India as an Insolvency Resolution Professional and empanelled by the Board from time to time.
(2) No person shall be appointed as an Administrator where such an appointment may be objected to on the grounds that give rise to justifiable doubts as to the independence or impartiality of such a person:
Provided that any question involving issues of conflict of interest in the appointment of an Administrator shall be decided by the Recovery Officer.
(3) The Administrator shall provide an undertaking to the Board of absence of any conflict of interest with the defaulter, its directors, promoters, key managerial personnel and its group entities.
(4) The Administrator shall also forthwith disclose to the Board any conflict of interest which may come to his knowledge during his tenure:
(5) For the purposes of these regulations, the Administrator shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) and sections 22 and 23 of the Act shall accordingly apply to him.
6.The terms and conditions of appointment including remuneration shall be specified by the Board, on a case to case basis, after taking into consideration the quantum of work, the number of investors and the quantum of money involved.
Page 4 of 12
7.(1) An Administrator shall perform the following functions –
(a)As may be directed by the Recovery Officer, obtain from the defaulter or any other person, any information or document including documents relating to ownership and possession of properties, details of amount raised from investors, claims of investors, amount claimed to have been refunded to investors;
(b)Make a record of the properties that have been attached by the Recovery Officer including the additional properties that have been entrusted by the Recovery Officer from time to time and those properties which are not part of the attachment order;
(c)Make a record of the bank accounts and dematerialised accounts of the defaulter and value of the monies and securities held thereunder;
(d)Arrange for a proclamation for the sale of the property and arrange affixation of the copy of such proclamation in accordance with the provisions of the Act;
(e)Open an interest bearing bank account, under the control of the Recovery Officer, with a scheduled public sector bank for depositing the proceeds of the money recovered from the sale of the assets and for making repayment to the investors;
(f)Sell the attached properties in accordance with these regulations or as may be directed by the Recovery Officer;
(g)Call for claims, in the manner specified in these regulations or as may be directed by the Recovery Officer, for the purposes of repayment to investors, pursuant to an order of the Board for refunds;
(h)Verify the claims of investors and also that of the defaulter in respect of repayment of monies, either partly paid or wholly paid, claimed to have been made to investors on the basis of documentary evidence:
Explanation – Verification may involve forensic auditing.
(i)Carry out any other necessary incidental and supplementary act, with the prior approval of the Recovery Officer that may be required for the purpose of carrying out its obligations under these regulations.
(2)While discharging the functions under these regulations, the Administrator -
(a)may engage the services of a peer reviewed chartered accountant for verifying the claims of investors on the basis of documentary evidence and for submission of a certified report to the Administrator;
Page 5 of 12
(b)shall engage the services of a registered valuer to evaluate the properties of defaulter that are attached by the Recovery Officer and for submission of a certified valuation report in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Board;
(c)may engage the services of a registrar and share transfer agent registered with the Board or such other agency as may be approved by the Recovery
Officer, for managing the entire repayment process.
Provided that the fees paid for such services shall be fixed by the Administrator taking into account the relevant factors including –
(a)the number of investors and the claims that are made;
(b)quantum of work involved;
(c)the number of assets to be evaluated;
(d)the geographical location of the property and its proximity with the valuer’s place of business;
and such fees shall be within the overall remuneration fixed by the Board for the Administrator:
Provided further that the intermediary or such other person engaged by the Administrator, shall not have any conflict of interest which would impede their independence or impartiality.
8.(1) The Administrator shall undertake the process of sale of properties after conducting an independent valuation of such properties by a registered valuer.
(2) After considering the valuation report, the Recovery Officer may decide on the reserve price below which the property may not be sold.
(3) The Administrator may undertake the sale of properties through e-auction process and for this purpose engage an e-auction agency and shall in consultation with the Recovery Officer repeat the auction process till the time such properties are disposed off.
(4)The process of disposing off the properties shall be under the supervision of the Recovery Officer.
Page 6 of 12
(5)On completion of the sale and receipt of the sale consideration, the Recovery Officer shall issue an order confirming such sale in accordance with the Act.
(6)The amount realized in respect of sale of properties of the defaulter shall be deposited in a separate bank account with a scheduled public sector bank in terms of clause (e) of regulation 7 and such account shall be under the control of the Recovery Officer.
Part IV - Refund of monies
9.(1) For the purposes of inviting claims from the investors, the Administrator shall -
(a) issue advertisements in an English and a Hindi newspaper having nationwide circulation and if so directed by the Recovery Officer, issue such advertisement in vernacular newspaper(s) having circulation in the area(s) where the investors are concentrated;
(b) direct the defaulter to issue advertisement in its website, if available.
(2) The advertisement referred to sub-regulation (1) may also be hosted on the website of the Board.
(3) The advertisements referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall contain instructions on the manner of making claims by investors and the documents and information that are to be submitted for verifying and processing their claim applications.
(4) The invitation of claims from the investors shall be through electronic mode or be received in the office of the Administrator;
Provided that the investors’ claims received, if any, by the Board and forwarded to the Administrator shall also be included in the relevant records maintained by the Administrator.
(5)The Administrator or the chartered accountant engaged by the Administrator, shall consider the total eligible claims as against the monies available for distribution to investors in order to determine whether the whole amount or a proportionate amount may be repaid to the investors as may be directed by the Recovery Officer.
(6)Upon ascertaining the eligibility, the Administrator in consultation with the Recovery Officer, shall repay the money to the eligible investors only through pay orders, demand drafts and electronic transfer through NEFT or RTGS.
(7)The refund process shall be kept open for an appropriate period as may be decided in consultation with the Recovery Officer.
Page 7 of 12
(8)The monies remaining in the interest bearing escrow bank account after satisfying all the permissible claims of investors and other charges, shall be retained therein for a period of three years in order to meet the claims that may be received from any unpaid investor.
(9)Upon completion of the period specified under sub-regulation (8), the unpaid monies due to investors, if any, shall be transferred to the Investor Protection and Education Fund of the Board.
(10)In case any claim is received from an unpaid investor after the refund process has been closed, the same may be made from the Investor Protection and Education Fund after necessary verification by the Administrator in consultation with the Recovery Officer:
Provided that the claim shall be made within a period of three years from the date of transfer of monies to the Investor Protection and Education Fund in terms of sub- regulation (9).
10.(1)The entire costs incurred in relation to the sale of properties, verification of investors’ claims, remuneration of Administrator including the fees paid, if any, to the chartered accountant or valuer or such other person engaged by the Administrator and registrar and share transfer agent and all other expenses incurred in connection with the recovery and/or the repayment process shall be borne by the defaulter(s), failing which, the monies recovered by the Board shall be appropriated in priority to the other liabilities.
(2)The cost and expenses referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be reasonable and directly related to and necessary for the act and purposes referred to in these regulations.
(3)Where the Administrator is appointed on the request of a person against whom an order for disgorgement or refund had been issued by the Board, the remuneration of the Administrator and the other costs incurred in respect of recovery and/or refund to the investors shall be borne by such person.
Page 8 of 12
11. The proceeds from the sale of properties of the defaulter shall be distributed in the following order of priority, namely, -
i.the costs of administration incurred by the Board, if any, and the fees and charges payable to the Administrator and other persons appointed by the administrator in performing its functions under these regulations;
ii.disgorgement and/or monies payable to investors:
Provided the Board may direct the Administrator to initiate the process of refund to the investors with the monies realized at the relevant time. For this purpose, the Administrator may call for claims in tranches
iii.any other penalty or fees due from the defaulter to the Board under the provisions of the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or the Depositories Act, 1996.
12.In case the proceeds realised by way of sale of properties of the defaulter is in excess of the monies due from him under the certificate and the applicable interest and other charges, the excess money shall be paid to the defaulter after completion of three years from the date of completion of the refund process.
13. Upon completion of the repayments to all investors or recovery of the disgorgement amount from the defaulter, the Administrator shall file a detailed repayment/recovery report to the Recovery Officer or Board, as the case may be, within the period as may be specified.
14.The provisions of these regulations in relation to recovery of disgorgement amount ordered by the Board shall be applied in so far as it is applicable and the disgorgement amount so recovered shall be credited to the Investor Protection and Education Fund of the Board.
Provided the disgorgement amount shall be paid to investors only in cases where the eligible investors are identified in the order passed by the Board and the remaining
Page 9 of 12
amount, if any, after such payment, shall be credited to the account of Investor Protection and Education Fund of the Board.
Part VI - General obligations and responsibilities
15.An Administrator -
a)shall maintain high standards of integrity, promptitude and fairness in the conduct of all his business.
b)shall act with due skill, care and diligence in the conduct of all his business.
c)shall not misrepresent any facts or situations and shall refrain from being involved in any action that would bring disrepute to the profession.
d)shall act with objectivity during the course of his professional dealings by ensuring that all decisions are made without any bias, conflict of interest, coercion, or undue influence of any party, whether directly or indirectly connected to sale of properties, verification of claims and refund of monies.
e)shall not acquire, directly or indirectly, any of the assets of the defaulter.
f)shall maintain complete independence in all professional relationships and conduct the verification and refund process, as the case may be, independent of external influences.
g)shall not conceal any material information or knowingly make a misleading statement to the Recovery Officer or the Board.
h)shall not act with mala fide or be negligent while performing the functions and duties under the regulations.
i)shall provide all information and records as may be required by the Recovery Officer within the time specified by him.
j)shall ensure that confidentiality of the information relating to the sale of properties, verification and refund process, is maintained at all times: Provided that the Administrator may disclose any information after obtaining written authorization of the Recovery Officer or the Board.
k)shall disclose all costs towards the verification and refund process and endeavour to ensure that such costs are not unreasonable.
l)shall comply with the terms and conditions of its appointment.
16. (1) The Recovery Officer may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, recommend for replacement of the Administrator, in case the Administrator has -
a)failed to comply with the terms and conditions of appointment;
b)engaged valuers or chartered accountants or such other persons who are ineligible to act so;
c)failed to comply with any of the obligations and responsibilities specified under these regulations;
d)acted against the instructions of the Recovery Officer or the Board; or
e)acted in such manner that is prejudicial to the interest of the investors.
(2)Without prejudice to the action under sub-regulation (1), the Recovery Officer may recommend for initiation of appropriate action under the Act.
(3)On receipt of such recommendation or suo moto, the Board may take apprpriate action against the Administrator or such intermediary or such other person enagaged by the Administrator, under the Act including the following:
(a) remove such Administrator from the Panel;
(b) forward the matter to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India for appropriate action against the Administrator who is an Insolvency Resolution Professional; and
(c) issue suitable directions restraining such person from engaging in activities in the securities market in his professional capacity.
(4)The Board shall replace an Administrator in the event his registration with the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India is cancelled or suspended.
Chapter IV
17. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines, as deemed necessary.
Page 11 of 12
18.The Board or the Recovery Officer may specify the forms in respect of an order, notice, warrant, or certificate to be issued under these regulations.
Sd/-
AJAY TYAGI
CHAIRMAN
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA
1.(1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares) Regulations, 2013.
(2)They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
1
2.(1) In these regulations unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions shall be construed accordingly,–
(a)"abridged prospectus" shall have the same meaning assigned to it in or under sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Companies Act, 1956 and shall contain such additional disclosures as specified by Board from time to time;
(b)“Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992;
(c)"advertisement" includes notices, brochures, pamphlets, circulars, show cards, catalogues, hoardings, placards, posters, insertions in newspaper, pictures, films, cover pages of offer documents or any other print medium, radio, television programmes through any electronic medium;
(d)"bank" includes any bank included in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934;
(e)“Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under provisions of Section 3 of Act;
(f)“book building” means a process undertaken prior to filing of prospectus with the Registrar of Companies by means of circulation of a notice, circular, advertisement or other document by which the demand for the non-convertible redeemable preference shares proposed to be issued by an issuer is elicited and the price and quantity of such securities is assessed;
(g)"designated stock exchange" means a stock exchange in which securities of the issuer are listed or proposed to be listed and which is chosen by the issuer for the purpose of a particular issue under these regulations;
(h)"innovative perpetual debt instrument" means an innovative perpetual debt instrument issued by a bank in accordance with the guidelines framed by the Reserve Bank of India;
(i)"issuer" means any public company in terms of section 3 of the Companies Act, 1956, public sector undertaking or statutory corporation which
2
makes or proposes to make an issue of non-convertible redeemable preference shares in accordance with these regulations or which has its securities listed on a recognized stock exchange or which seeks to list its non-convertible redeemable preference shares on a recognized stock exchange;
(j)“Listing Agreement” means a listing agreement to be entered into between the issuer and the stock exchange where the non-convertible redeemable preference shares are proposed to be listed in the form as may be specified by the Board from time to time;
(k)"non-convertible redeemable preference share" means a preference share which is redeemable in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and does not include a preference share which is convertible into or exchangeable with equity shares of the issuer at a later date, with or without the option of the holder;
(l)"perpetual non-cumulative preference share" means a perpetual non- cumulative preference share issued by a bank in accordance with the guidelines framed by the Reserve Bank of India;
(m)"private placement" means an offer or invitation to subscribe to the non- convertible redeemable preference shares in terms of sub-section (3) of section 67 of the Companies Act, 1956;
(n)"promoter" has the same meaning as in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009;
(o)"public issue" means an offer or invitation by an issuer to public to subscribe to the non-convertible redeemable preference shares which is not in the nature of a private placement;
(p)"offer document" means prospectus and includes any such document or advertisement whereby the subscription to non-convertible redeemable preference shares are invited by the issuer from public;
(q)"recognized stock exchange" means any stock exchange which is recognized under section 4 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956;
(r)"schedule" means a schedule annexed to these regulations;
3
(s)"specified" means as specified by the Board 1[;]
2[(t) "wilful defaulter" means an issuer who is categorized as a wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or consortium thereof, in accordance with the guidelines on wilful defaulters issued by the Reserve Bank of India and includes an issuer whose director or promoter is categorized as such.]
3.These regulations shall apply to,-
(1)public issue of non-convertible redeemable preference shares;
(2)listing of non-convertible redeemable preference shares on a recognized stock exchange which are issued by a public company through public issue or on private placement basis; and
4. 3[(1) No issuer shall make any public issue of non-convertible redeemable
preference shares if as on the date of filing of draft offer document or final offer document as provided in these regulations:
(a)the issuer or the person in control of the issuer or its promoter or its director is restrained or prohibited or debarred by the Board from accessing the securities market or dealing in securities; or
(b)the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a wilful defaulter or it is in default of payment of interest or repayment of principal amount in respect of non-convertible redeemable preference shares issued by it to the public, if any, for a period of more than six months.]
(2)No issuer shall make a public issue of non-convertible redeemable preference shares unless the following conditions are satisfied, as on the date of filing of draft offer document and final offer document as provided in these regulations, -
(a)it has made an application to one or more recognized stock exchanges for listing of such securities therein:
Provided that where the application is made to more than one recognized stock exchanges, the issuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange:
Provided further that where any of such stock exchanges have nationwide trading terminals, the issuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange;
Explanation: For any subsequent public issue, the issuer may choose a different stock exchange as a designated stock exchange subject to the requirements of this regulation;
(b)it has obtained in-principle approval for listing of its non-convertible redeemable preference shares on the recognized stock exchanges where the application for listing has been made;
3 Substituted for sub-regulation (1) by the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 25-05-16. Prior to substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as under:
“(1) No issuer shall make any public issue of non-convertible redeemable preference shares if as on the date of filing of draft offer document and final offer document as provided in these regulations, the issuer or the promoter of the issuer, has been restrained or prohibited or debarred by the Board from accessing the securities market or dealing in securities and such direction or order is in force.”
5
(c)it has obtained a credit rating from at least one credit rating agency registered with the Board and is disclosed in the offer document: Provided that where credit ratings are obtained from more than one credit rating agencies, all the ratings, including the unaccepted ratings, shall be disclosed in the offer document;
(d)it has entered into an arrangement with a depository registered with the Board for dematerialization of the non-convertible redeemable preference shares that are proposed to be issued to the public, in accordance with the Depositories Act, 1996 and regulations made thereunder;
(e)the minimum tenure of the non-convertible redeemable preference shares shall not be less than three years; and
(f)the issue has been assigned a rating of not less than “AA-” or equivalent by a credit rating agency registered with the Board .
(3)The issuer shall create a capital redemption reserve in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956;
(4)The issuer shall not issue non-convertible redeemable preference shares for providing loan to or acquisition of shares of any person who is part of the same group or who is under the same management, other than to subsidiaries of the issuer;
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, the terms "part of the same Group" and "under the same management" shall have the same meaning as provided in the explanation to regulation 23 of SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009.
(5)In case of public issue of non-convertible redeemable preference shares, the issuer shall appoint one or more merchant bankers registered with the Board at least one of whom shall be a lead merchant banker.
5.(1) The offer document shall contain all material disclosures which are necessary for the subscribers of the non -convertible redeemable preference shares to take an informed investment decision.
(2)Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the issuer and the
6
lead merchant banker shall ensure that the offer document contains the following:
(a)the disclosures specified in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 1956;
(b)disclosure specified in Schedule I of these regulations; and
(c)additional disclosures as may be specified by the Board. Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, “material” means anything which is likely to impact an investor’s investment decision.
6.(1) No issuer shall make a public issue of' non-convertible redeemable preference shares unless a draft offer document has been filed with the designated stock exchange through the lead merchant banker.
(2)The draft offer document filed with the designated stock exchange shall be made public by posting the same on the website of the designated stock exchange for seeking public comments for a period of seven working days from the date of filing the draft offer document with such exchange.
(3)The draft offer document may also be displayed on the website of the issuer, merchant bankers and the stock exchanges where the non-convertible redeemable preference shares are proposed to be listed.
(4)The lead merchant banker shall ensure that the draft offer document clearly specifies the names and contact particulars of the compliance officer of the lead merchant banker and the issuer including the postal and email address, telephone and fax numbers.
(5)The lead merchant banker shall ensure that all comments received on the draft offer document are suitably addressed prior to the filing of the offer document with the Registrar of Companies.
(6)A copy of draft and final offer document shall also be forwarded to the Board for its records, 4[along with fees as specified in Schedule III] simultaneously with filing of these documents with designated stock exchange.
(7)The lead merchant banker shall, prior to filing of the offer document with the Registrar of Companies, furnish to the Board a due diligence certificate as per
4Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 23-5-2014.
7
Schedule II of these regulations.
7.(1) The draft and final offer document shall be displayed on the websites of stock exchanges and shall be available for download in PDF /HTML formats.
(2)The offer document shall be filed with the designated stock exchange, simultaneously with filing thereof with the Registrar of Companies, for dissemination on its website prior to the opening of the issue.
(3)Where any person makes a request for a physical copy of the offer document, the same shall be provided to him by the issuer or lead merchant banker.
8.(1) The issuer shall make an advertisement in one English national daily newspaper and one Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation at the place where the registered office of the issuer is situated, on or before the issue opening date and such advertisement shall, amongst other things, contain the disclosures as per Schedule I.
(2)No issuer shall issue an advertisement which is misleading in material particulars or which contains any information in a distorted manner or which is manipulative or deceptive.
(3)The advertisement shall be truthful, fair and clear and shall not contain a statement, promise or forecast which is untrue or misleading.
(4)The credit rating shall be prominently displayed in the advertisement.
(5)Any advertisement issued by the issuer shall not contain any matters which are extraneous to the contents of the offer document.
(6)The advertisement shall urge the investors to invest only on the basis of information contained in the offer document.
(7)Any corporate or product advertisement issued by the issuer during the subscription period shall not make any reference to the issue of non-convertible redeemable preference shares or be used for solicitation.
Abridged Prospectus and application forms.
9.(1) The issuer and lead merchant banker shall ensure that:
(a)every application form issued by the issuer is accompanied by a copy of the abridged prospectus;
(b)the abridged prospectus shall not contain matters which are extraneous to the contents of the prospectus;
(c)adequate space shall be provided in the application form to enable the investors to fill in various details like name, address, etc.
10.An issuer proposing to issue non-convertible redeemable preference shares to the public through the on-line system of the designated stock exchange shall comply with the relevant applicable requirements as may be specified by the Board.
11.The issuer may determine the price of non-convertible redeemable preference shares in consultation with the lead merchant bankers and the issue may be at fixed price or the price may be determined through book building process in accordance with the procedure as may be specified by the Board.
12.The issuer shall redeem the non-convertible redeemable preference shares in terms of the offer document.
13.(1) The issuer may decide the amount of minimum subscription which it seeks to raise by public issue of non-convertible redeemable preference shares in accordance with the provisions of Companies Act, 1956 and disclose the same in the offer document.
(2)In the event of non-receipt of minimum subscription, all application moneys received in the public issue shall be refunded forthwith to the applicants. In the
9
event the application monies are refunded beyond eight days from the last day of the offer, then such amounts shall be refunded together with interest at such rate as may be set out in the offer document which shall not be less than fifteen per cent per annum.
14.A public issue of non-convertible redeemable preference shares may be underwritten by an underwriter registered with the Board and in such a case adequate disclosures regarding underwriting arrangements shall be made in the offer document.
15.(1) The offer document shall not omit disclosure of any material fact which may make the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, misleading.
16.(1) An issuer desirous of making an offer of non-convertible redeemable preference shares to the public shall make an application for listing to one or more recognized stock exchanges in terms of sub-section (1) of section 73 of the Companies Act, 1956.
(2)The issuer shall comply with conditions of listing of such non-convertible redeemable preference shares as specified in the Listing Agreement with the stock exchange where such non-convertible redeemable preference shares are sought to be listed.
(3)Where the issuer has disclosed the intention to seek listing of non- convertible redeemable preference shares issued on private placement basis, the
10
issuer shall forward the listing application along with the disclosures specified in Schedule I to the recognized stock exchange within fifteen days from the date of allotment of such non-convertible redeemable preference shares.
16A. (1) Every issuer desirous of listing its non-convertible redeemable preference shares, or perpetual non-cumulative preference shares or innovative perpetual debt instruments on a recognised stock exchange, shall execute an agreement with such stock exchange.
(2)Every issuer which has previously entered into agreements with a recognised stock exchange to list non-convertible redeemable preference shares, or perpetual non-cumulative preference shares or innovative perpetual debt instruments shall execute a fresh listing agreement with such stock exchange within six months of the date of notification of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
[. ]6]
17.(1) An issuer may list its non-convertible redeemable preference shares
issued on private placement basis on a recognized stock exchange subject to the following conditions:
(a) the issuer has issued such non-convertible redeemable preference
5Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 1-12- 2015.
6Omitted by the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 09-10-2018. Prior to this amendment, the regulation read as: Security Deposit. 16B. (1) The issuer shall deposit, before the opening of subscription list, and keep deposited with the stock exchange(s) an amount calculated at the rate of one per cent. of the amount of securities offered for subscription to the public.
(2) The amount stipulated in sub-regulation (1) shall be deposited in the manner specified by Board and/or stock exchange(s).
(3) The amount stipulated in sub-regulation (1) shall be refundable or forfeitable in the manner specified by the Board.]
11
shares in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act,1956, rules prescribed thereunder and other applicable laws;
(b)credit rating has been obtained in respect of such non-convertible redeemable preference shares from at least one credit rating agency registered with the Board:
Provided that where credit ratings are obtained from more than one credit rating agencies, all the ratings shall be disclosed in the offer document;
(c)the non-convertible redeemable preference shares proposed to be listed
are in dematerialized form;
(d)the disclosures as provided in regulation 18 have been made;
(e)the minimum application size for each investor is not less than ten lakh rupees; and
(f)the issue is in compliance with sub-regulation (3) and (4) of regulation 4.
where the application is made to more than one recognised stock exchange, the issuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange.]
(2)The issuer shall comply with conditions of listing of such non-convertible redeemable preference shares as specified in the Listing Agreement with the stock exchange where such non-convertible redeemable preference shares are sought to be listed.
Disclosures in respect of private placements of non-convertible redeemable preference
18.(1) The issuer making a private placement of non-convertible redeemable preference shares and seeking listing thereof on a recognized stock exchange shall
make disclosures as specified in Schedule I of these regulations accompanied by the latest Annual Report of the issuer.
7Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e.f. 23-5-2014.
12
(2)The disclosures as provided in sub-regulation (1) shall be made on the web sites of stock exchanges where such securities are proposed to be listed and shall be available for download in PDF / HTML formats.
20.(1) All the issuers making public issues of non-convertible redeemable preference shares or seeking listing of non-convertible redeemable preference shares issued on private placement basis shall comply with the conditions of listing specified in the respective listing agreement for non-convertible redeemable preference shares.
(2)& (3) 8[***]
(4)The issuer and stock exchanges shall disseminate all information and reports on non-convertible redeemable preference shares including compliance reports filed by the issuers regarding the non-convertible redeemable preference shares to the investors and the general public by placing them on their websites.
2015. Prior to its omission, sub regulations (2) and (3) read as under:
“(2) Each rating obtained by an issuer shall be reviewed by the registered credit rating agency at least once a year and any revision in the rating shall be promptly disclosed by the issuer to the stock exchange(s) where the non-convertible redeemable preference shares are listed.
(3)Any change in rating shall be promptly disseminated to investors and prospective investors in such manner as the stock exchange where such securities are listed may determine from time to time.”
13
23.(1) These provisions of these regulations shall, so far as they may, apply to the issuance and listing of Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares and Innovative Perpetual Debt Instruments by banks.
(2)No issuer other than a bank shall issue the instruments mentioned in sub- regulation (1).
(3)A bank may issue such instruments subject to the prior approval and in compliance with the Guidelines issued by Reserve Bank of India.
(4)If a bank is incorporated as a company under Companies Act, 1956, it shall, in addition, comply with the provisions of Companies Act, 1956 and/or other applicable statues.
23A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified
9Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17-04-2020.
15
but not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis.
24.(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of sections 11 and 11C of the Act and section 209A of the Companies Act, the Board may suo motu or upon information received by it, appoint one or more persons to undertake the inspection of the books of account, records and documents of the issuer or merchant banker or any other intermediary associated with the public issue, disclosure or listing of non-convertible redeemable preference shares, as governed under these regulations, for any of the purposes specified in sub-regulation (2).
(2)The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) may be as follows, namely:-
(a)to verify whether the provisions of the Act, Companies Act, 1956, Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, Depositories Act, 1996, the rules and regulations made thereunder in respect of issue of securities have been complied with;
(b)to verify whether the requirement in respect of issue of securities as specified in these regulations has been complied with;
(c)to verify whether the requirement of listing conditions and continuous disclosure requirement have been complied with;
16
(d)to inquire into the complaints received from investors, other market participants or any other persons on any matter of issue and transfer of securities governed under these regulations;
(e)to inquire into affairs of the issuer in the interest of investor protection or the integrity of the market governed under these regulations;
(f)to inquire whether any direction issued by the Board has been complied with.
25.(1) Without prejudice to its powers under Chapter VIA and section 24 of the Act, the Board may, in the interest of investors in securities market, issue such directions as it deems fit under section 11 or section 11A or section 11B or section
11D of the Act including:
(a)directing the issuer to refund of the application monies to the applicants in a public issue;
(b)directing the persons concerned not to further deal in securities in any particular manner;
(c)directing the persons concerned not to access the securities market for a particular period;
(d)restraining the issuer or its promoters or directors from making further issues of securities;
(e)directing the person concerned to sell or divest the securities;
(f)directing the issuer or the depository not to give effect transfer or directing further freeze of transfer of securities;
(g)any other direction which Board may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the case:
Provided that the Board shall, either before or after issuing such directions, give an opportunity of being heard to the persons against whom the directions are issued or proposed to be issued:
17
Provided further that, if, any ex-parte direction is required to be issued, the
Board may give post decisional hearing to affected person.
26.(1) The Board may by a general or special order or circular specify any conditions or requirement in respect of issue of non-convertible redeemable preference shares.
(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power and provisions of these regulations, such orders or circulars may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:
(a)Electronic issuances and other issue procedures including the procedure for price discovery;
(b)Conditions governing trading, reporting, clearing and settlement of trade in non-convertible redeemable preference shares; or
(c)Listing conditions.
27.(1) In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications or grant relaxations from application requirement or conditions of these regulations, after recording reasons therefor.
(2)The Board may, on an application made by any issuer, relax any of the procedural requirements or conditions or strict enforcement of these regulations, if the Board is satisfied that:
a.requirement is procedural or technical in nature; or
b.requirement causes undue hardship to a particular class of industry or issuers from accessing the securities market; or
c.relaxation is in the interest of substantial number of investors; or
d.such relaxation will be in the interest of securities market.
18
1.(1) These regulations shall be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012.
(2)These regulations shall come into force on the date of their notification in the Official Gazette.
2.(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions and variations shall be construed accordingly,—
(a)“Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);
(b)“Alternative Investment Fund” means any fund established or incorporated in India in the form of a trust or a company or a limited liability partnership or a body corporate which,-
(i)is a privately pooled investment vehicle which collects funds from investors, whether Indian or foreign, for investing it in accordance with a defined investment policy for the benefit of its investors; and
(ii)is not covered under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996, Securities and Exchange Board of India (Collective Investment Schemes) Regulations, 1999 or any other regulations of the Board to regulate fund management activities:
Provided that the following shall not be considered as Alternative Investment Fund for the purpose of these regulations,-
(i)family trusts set up for the benefit of ‘relatives’ as defined under
1[Companies Act, 2013];
(ii)2[ESOP Trusts set up under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 or as permitted under Companies Act, 2013;]
(iii)employee welfare trusts or gratuity trusts set up for the benefit of employees;
(iv)3[’holding companies’ as defined under sub-section 46 of section 2 of Companies Act, 2013;]
1Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “Companies Act, 1956”.
2Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “(ii) ESOP Trusts set up under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock Purchase Scheme), Guidelines, 1999 or as permitted under Companies Act, 1956;”
3Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “holding companies’ within the meaning of Section 4 of the Companies Act, 1956;”.
(v)other special purpose vehicles not established by fund managers, including securitization trusts, regulated under a specific regulatory framework;
(vi)funds managed by securitisation company or reconstruction company which is registered with the Reserve Bank of India under Section 3 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002; and
(vii)any such pool of funds which is directly regulated by any other regulator in India;
(c)“associate” means a company or a limited liability partnership or a body corporate in which a director or trustee or partner or Sponsor or Manager of the Alternative Investment Fund or a director or partner of the Manager or Sponsor holds, either individually or collectively, more than fifteen percent of its paid-up equity share capital or partnership interest, as the case may be;
(d)“Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under
Section 3 of the Act;
(e)“certificate” means a certificate of registration granted by the Board under regulation 6;
(f)“change in control” in relation to a company or a body corporate, means:
(i)if its shares are listed on any recognized stock exchange, change in control within the meaning of clause (e) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
(ii)in any other case, change in the controlling interest or change in legal form;
Explanation.─ For the purpose of sub-clause (ii), the expression
“controlling interest” means an interest, whether direct or indirect, to the extent of more than fifty percent of voting rights or interest;
(g)“company” means a company incorporated under the 4[Companies Act, 2013];
(h)“corpus” means the total amount of funds committed by investors to the Alternative Investment Fund by way of a written contract or any such document as on a particular date;
5[(ha) “custodian” means a person who has been granted a certificate of registration to carry on the business of custodian under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Custodian) Regulations, 1996;]
(i)“debt fund” means an Alternative Investment Fund which invests primarily in debt or debt securities of listed or unlisted investee companies according to the stated objectives of the Fund;
(j)“equity linked instruments” includes instruments convertible into equity shares or share warrants, preference shares, debentures compulsorily or optionally convertible into equity;
(k)“form” means any of the forms set out in the First Schedule;
6[(ka) “goods” means the goods notified by the Central Government under clause (bc) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and forming the underlying of any commodity derivative;]
(l)“hedge fund” means an Alternative Investment Fund which employs diverse or complex trading strategies and invests and trades in securities having diverse risks or complex products including listed and unlisted derivatives;
(m)“infrastructure fund” means an Alternative Investment Fund which invests primarily in unlisted securities or partnership interest or listed debt or securitized
4Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “Companies Act, 1956”.
5Inserted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 10-05-2019.
6Inserted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 10-05-2019.
debt instruments of investee companies or special purpose vehicles engaged in or formed for the purpose of operating, developing or holding infrastructure projects;
Explanation.─ ‘Infrastructure’ shall be as defined by the government of India from time to time.
(n)“inspecting authority” means any one or more person appointed by the Board to
exercise powers conferred under regulation 30;
(o)“investee company” means any company, special purpose vehicle or limited liability partnership or body corporate 7[or real estate investment trust or infrastructure investment trust] in which an Alternative Investment Fund makes an investment;
(p)“investible funds” means corpus of the Alternative Investment Fund net of
estimated expenditure for administration and management of the fund;
(q)“manager” means any person or entity who is appointed by the Alternative
Investment Fund to manage its investments by whatever name called and may also be same as the sponsor of the Fund;
(r)“private equity fund” means an Alternative Investment Fund which invests primarily in equity or equity linked instruments or partnership interests of investee companies according to the stated objective of the fund;
(s)“SME” means Small and Medium Enterprise and shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act 2006 as amended from time to time;
(t)“SME fund” means an Alternative Investment Fund which invests primarily in
unlisted securities of investee companies which are SMEs or securities of those SMEs which are listed or proposed to be listed on a SME exchange or SME segment of an exchange;
7Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 26-09-2014.
(u)“social venture” means a trust, society or company or venture capital undertaking or limited liability partnership formed with the purpose of promoting social welfare or solving social problems or providing social benefits and includes,-
(i)public charitable trusts registered with Charity Commissioner;
(ii)societies registered for charitable purposes or for promotion of science, literature, or fine arts;
(iii)8[company registered under section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013;]
(iv)micro finance institutions;
(v)“social venture fund” means an Alternative Investment Fund which invests primarily in securities or units of social ventures and which satisfies social performance norms laid down by the fund and whose investors may agree to receive restricted or muted returns;
(w)“sponsor” means any person or persons who set up the Alternative Investment Fund and includes promoter in case of a company and designated partner in case of a limited liability partnership;
(x)“trust” means a trust established under the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 or under an Act of Parliament or State Legislation;
(y)“unit” means beneficial interest of the investors in the Alternative Investment Fund or a scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund and shall include shares or partnership interests;
(z)“venture capital fund” means an Alternative Investment Fund which invests primarily in unlisted securities of start-ups, emerging or early-stage venture capital undertakings mainly involved in new products, new services, technology or intellectual property right based activities or a new business model 9[and shall include an angel fund as defined under Chapter III-A];
8Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “company registered under Section 25 of the Companies Act, 1956”.
9Inserted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-09-2013
(aa)“venture capital undertaking” means a domestic company:
(i)which is not listed on a recognised stock exchange in India at the time of making investment; and
(ii)which is engaged in the business for providing services, production or manufacture of article or things and does not include following activities or sectors:
(1)non-banking financial companies;
(2)gold financing;
(3)activities not permitted under industrial policy of Government of India;
(4)any other activity which may be specified by the Board in consultation with Government of India from time to time;
3.(1) On and from the commencement of these regulations, no entity or person shall act as an Alternative Investment Fund unless it has obtained a certificate of registration from the Board:
10Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)”.
Provided that an existing fund falling within the definition of Alternative Investment Fund which is not registered with the Board may continue to operate for a period of six months from commencement of these regulations or if it has made an application for registration under sub-regulation (5) within the said period of six months, till the disposal of such application:
Provided further that the Board may, in special cases, extend the said period up to a maximum of twelve months from the date of such commencement:
Provided further that existing schemes will be allowed to complete their agreed tenure, such funds shall not raise any fresh monies other than commitments already made till registration is granted under regulation 6:
11[Provided further that such existing funds, which do not propose to accept any fresh commitments after commencement of these regulations shall not be required to obtain registration under these regulations subject to submission of information on their activities to the Board in the manner as may be specified]
Provided further that if such existing funds are not able to comply with conditions specified under these regulations, they may apply for exemption to the Board from strict compliance with these regulations and the Board upon examination may provide such exemptions or issue such instructions as may be deemed appropriate.
(2)The funds registered as venture capital fund under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996 shall continue to be regulated by the said regulations till the existing fund or scheme managed by the fund is wound up and such funds shall not launch any new scheme after notification of these regulations:
Provided that the existing fund or scheme shall not increase the targeted corpus of the fund or scheme after notification of these regulations.
Provided further that venture capital funds may seek re-registration under these regulations subject to approval of two-thirds of their investors by value of their investment.
11Inserted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-09-2013.
(3)Any entity referred to in sub-regulation (1) who fails to make an application for grant of a certificate within the period specified therein shall cease to carry on any activity as an Alternative Investment Fund.
(4)Alternative Investment Funds shall seek registration in one of the categories mentioned hereunder and in case of Category I Alternative Investment Fund, in one of the sub- categories thereof:
(a)“Category I Alternative Investment Fund” which invests in start-up or early stage ventures or social ventures or SMEs or infrastructure or other sectors or areas which the government or regulators consider as socially or economically desirable and shall include venture capital funds, SME Funds, social venture funds, infrastructure funds and such other Alternative Investment Funds as may be specified;
Explanation.─ For the purpose of this clause, Alternative Investment Funds which are generally perceived to have positive spillover effects on economy and for which the Board or Government of India or other regulators in India might consider providing incentives or concessions shall be included and such funds which are formed as trusts or companies shall be construed as “venture capital company” or “venture capital fund” as specified under sub-section (23FB) of Section 10 of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
(b)“Category II Alternative Investment Fund” which does not fall in Category I and
III and which does not undertake leverage or borrowing other than to meet day-to- day operational requirements and as permitted in these regulations;
Explanation.─ For the purpose of this clause, Alternative Investment Funds such as private equity funds or debt funds for which no specific incentives or concessions are given by the government or any other Regulator shall be included.
(c)“Category III Alternative Investment Fund” which employs diverse or complex trading strategies and may employ leverage including through investment in listed or unlisted derivatives.
Explanation.─ For the purpose of this clause, Alternative Investment Funds such as hedge funds or funds which trade with a view to make short term returns or such
other funds which are open ended and for which no specific incentives or concessions are given by the government or any other Regulator shall be included.
(5)An application for grant of certificate shall be made for any of the categories as specified in sub-regulation (4) in Form A as specified in the First Schedule to these regulations and shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as specified in Part A of the Second Schedule to these regulations to be paid in the manner specified in Part B thereof.
(6)The Board shall take into account requirements as specified in these regulations for the purpose of considering grant of registration.
(7)Without prejudice to the powers of the Board to take any action under the Act or regulations made there under, the certificate of registration shall be valid till the Alternative Investment Fund is wound up.
(8)The Board may, in the interest of the investors, issue directions with regard to the transfer of records, documents or securities or disposal of investments relating to its activities as an Alternative Investment Fund.
4.For the purpose of the grant of certificate to an applicant, the Board shall consider the following conditions for eligibility, namely, —
(a)the memorandum of association in case of a company; or the Trust Deed in case of a Trust; or the Partnership deed in case of a limited liability partnership permits it to carry on the activity of an Alternative Investment Fund;
(b)the applicant is prohibited by its memorandum and articles of association or trust deed or partnership deed from making an invitation to the public to subscribe to its securities;
(c)in case the applicant is a Trust, the instrument of trust is in the form of a deed and has been duly registered under the provisions of the Registration Act, 1908;
(d)in case the applicant is a limited liability partnership, the partnership is duly incorporated and the partnership deed has been duly filed with the Registrar under the provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008;
(e)in case the applicant is a body corporate, it is set up or established under the laws of the Central or State Legislature and is permitted to carry on the activities of an Alternative Investment Fund;
(f)the applicant, Sponsor and Manager are fit and proper persons based on the criteria specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008;
(g)the key investment team of the Manager of Alternative Investment Fund has adequate experience, with at least one key personnel having not less than five years experience in advising or managing pools of capital or in fund or asset or wealth or portfolio management or in the business of buying, selling and dealing of securities or other financial assets and has relevant professional qualification;
(h)the Manager or Sponsor has the necessary infrastructure and manpower to effectively discharge its activities;
(i)the applicant has clearly described at the time of registration the investment objective, the targeted investors, proposed corpus, investment style or strategy and proposed tenure of the fund or scheme;
(j)whether the applicant or any entity established by the Sponsor or Manager has earlier been refused registration by the Board.
5.(1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish any such further information or clarification regarding the Sponsor or Manager or nature of the fund or fund management activities or any such matter connected thereto to consider the application for grant of a certificate or after registration thereon.
(2)If required by the Board, the applicant or Sponsor or Manager shall appear before the Board for personal representation.
6.(1) The Board may grant certificate under any specific category of Alternative Investment Fund, if it is satisfied that the applicant fulfills the requirements as specified in these regulations.
(2)The Board shall, on receipt of the registration fee as specified in the Second Schedule, grant a certificate of registration in Form B.
(3)The registration may be granted with such conditions as may be deemed appropriate by the Board.
12[(4) The Board may, on being satisfied that the applicant complies with the provisions of regulation 4 except those of clause (c) or clause (d) thereof, as the case may be, grant an in- principle approval to the applicant:
Provided that the applicant shall comply with clause (c) or clause (d) of regulation 4, as the case may be, within six months from the date of grant of in-principle approval and upon compliance with the same, the Board may grant a certificate of registration under sub- regulation (2).
(5)An Alternative Investment Fund that has been granted in-principle approval may accept commitments from investors but shall not accept any monies till it is granted registration under sub-regulation (2) of this regulation.]
7.(1) The certificate granted under regulation 6 shall, inter-alia, be subject to the following conditions:-
(a)the Alternative Investment Fund shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations;
12Inserted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-09-2013
(b)the Alternative Investment Fund shall not carry on any other activity other than permitted activities;
(c)the Alternative Investment Fund shall forthwith inform the Board in writing, if any information or particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be false or misleading in any material particular or if there is any material change in the information already submitted.
8.(1) After considering an application made under regulation 3, if the Board is of the opinion that a certificate should not be granted, it may reject the application after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(2)The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant within thirty days.
(3)Where an application for a certificate is rejected by the Board, the applicant shall cease to carry on any activity as an Alternative Investment Fund:
9.(1) All Alternative Investment Funds shall state investment strategy, investment purpose and its investment methodology in its placement memorandum to the investors.
(2)Any material alteration to the fund strategy shall be made with the consent of atleast two- thirds of unit holders by value of their investment in the Alternative Investment Fund.
10.Investment in all categories of Alternative Investment Funds shall be subject to the following conditions:-
(a)the Alternative Investment Fund may raise funds from any investor whether Indian, foreign or non-resident Indians by way of issue of units;
(b)each scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund shall have corpus of atleast twenty crore rupees;
(c)the Alternative Investment Fund shall not accept from an investor, an investment of value less than one crore rupees:
Provided that in case of investors who are employees or directors of the Alternative Investment Fund or employees or directors of the Manager, the minimum value of investment shall be twenty five lakh rupees.
(d)the Manager or Sponsor shall have a continuing interest in the Alternative Investment Fund of not less than two and half percent of the corpus or five crore rupees, whichever is lower, in the form of investment in the Alternative Investment Fund and such interest shall not be through the waiver of management fees:
Provided that for Category III Alternative Investment Fund, the continuing interest shall be not less than five percent of the corpus or ten crore rupees, whichever is lower.
(e)the Manager or Sponsor shall disclose their investment in the Alternative Investment Fund to the investors of the Alternative Investment Fund;
(f)no scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund shall have more than one thousand investors13[:]
14[Provided that the provisions of the 15[Companies Act, 2013] shall apply to the Alternative Investment Fund, if it is formed as a company.]
13Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-09-2013 for the symbol “;”
14Inserted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-09-2013
15Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “Companies Act, 1956”.
(g) the fund shall not solicit or collect funds except by way of private placement.
11.(1)Alternative Investment Fund shall raise funds through private placement by issue of information memorandum or placement memorandum, by whatever name called.
(2)Such information or placement memorandum as specified in sub-regulation (1) shall contain all material information about the Alternative Investment Fund and the Manager, background of key investment team of the Manager, targeted investors, fees and all other expenses proposed to be charged, tenure of the Alternative Investment Fund or scheme, conditions or limits on redemption, investment strategy, risk management tools and parameters employed, key service providers, conflict of interest and procedures to identify and address them, disciplinary history, the terms and conditions on which the Manager offers investment services, its affiliations with other intermediaries, manner of winding up of the Alternative Investment Fund or the scheme and such other information as may be necessary for the investor to take an informed decision on whether to invest in the Alternative Investment Fund.
12.(1) The Alternative Investment Fund may launch schemes subject to filing of placement memorandum with the Board.
(2)Such placement memorandum shall be filed with the Board atleast thirty days prior to launch of scheme along with the fees as specified in the Second Schedule:
Provided that payment of scheme fees shall not apply in case of launch of first scheme by the Alternative Investment Fund.
(3)The Board may communicate its comments, if any, to the applicant prior to launch of the scheme and the applicant shall incorporate the comments in placement memorandum prior to launch of scheme.
13.(1) Category I Alternative Investment Fund and Category II Alternative Investment Fund shall be close ended and the tenure of fund or scheme shall be determined at the time of application subject to sub-regulation (2) of this regulation.
(2)Category I and II Alternative Investment Fund or schemes launched by such funds shall have a minimum tenure of three years.
(3)Category III Alternative Investment Fund may be open ended or close ended.
(4)Extension of the tenure of the close ended Alternative Investment Fund may be permitted up to two years subject to approval of two-thirds of the unit holders by value of their investment in the Alternative Investment Fund.
(5)In the absence of consent of unit holders, the Alternative Investment Fund shall fully liquidate within one year following expiration of the fund tenure or extended tenure.
14.(1) Units of close ended Alternative Investment Fund may be listed on stock exchange subject to a minimum tradable lot of one crore rupees.
(2)Listing of Alternative Investment Fund units shall be permitted only after final close of the fund or scheme.
15.(1) Investments by all categories of Alternative Investment Funds shall be subject to the following conditions:-
(a)Alternative Investment Fund may invest in securities of companies incorporated outside India subject to such conditions or guidelines that may be stipulated or issued by the Reserve Bank of India and the Board from time to time;
(b)Co-investment in an investee company by a Manager or Sponsor shall not be on terms more favourable than those offered to the Alternative Investment Fund;
(c)Category I and II Alternative Investment Funds shall invest not more than twenty five percent of the 16[investable funds] in one Investee Company;
(d)Category III Alternative Investment Fund shall invest not more than ten percent of the 17[investable funds] in one Investee Company
(e)Alternative Investment Fund shall not invest in associates except with the approval of seventy five percent of investors by value of their investment in the Alternative Investment Fund;
(f)Un-invested portion of the 18[investable funds] may be invested in liquid mutual funds or bank deposits or other liquid assets of higher quality such as Treasury bills, CBLOs, Commercial Papers, Certificates of Deposits, etc. till deployment of funds as per the investment objective;
(g)Alternative Investment Fund may act as Nominated Investor as specified in clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 106N of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009.
19[(h) Investment by Category I and Category II Alternative Investment Funds in the shares of entities listed on institutional trading platform after the commencement of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2015 shall be deemed to be investment in ‘unlisted securities’ for the purpose of these regulations.]
16.(1) The following investment conditions shall apply to all Category I Alternative Investment Funds:-
16Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013 for the word “corpus”
17Ibid
18Ibid
19Inserted by SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f 14.08.2015
(a)Category I Alternative Investment Fund shall invest in investee companies or venture capital undertaking or in special purpose vehicles or in limited liability partnerships or in units of other Alternative Investment Funds as specified in these regulations;
(b)Fund of Category I Alternative Investment Funds may invest in units of Category I Alternative Investment Funds of same sub-category:
Provided that they shall only invest in such units and shall not invest in units of other Fund of Funds:
Provided further that the investment conditions as specified in sub-regulations (2), (3), (4) or (5) shall not be applicable to investments by such funds.
(c)Category I Alternative Investment Funds shall not borrow funds directly or indirectly or engage in any leverage except for meeting temporary funding requirements for not more than thirty days, on not more than four occasions in a year and not more than ten percent of the 20[investable funds].
(2)The following investment conditions shall apply to venture capital funds in addition to conditions laid down in sub-regulation (1):-
(a)at least two-thirds of the 21[investable funds] shall be invested in unlisted equity shares or equity linked instruments of a venture capital undertaking or in companies listed or proposed to be listed on a SME exchange or SME segment of an exchange;
(b)not more than one-third of the 22[investable funds] shall be invested in:
(i)subscription to initial public offer of a venture capital undertaking whose shares are proposed to be listed;
(ii)debt or debt instrument of a venture capital undertaking in which the fund has already made an investment by way of equity or contribution towards partnership interest;
20Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013 for the word “corpus”
21Ibid.
22Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013 for the word “corpus”
(iii)preferential allotment, including through qualified institutional placement, of equity shares or equity linked instruments of a listed company subject to lock in period of one year;
(iv)the equity shares or equity linked instruments of a financially weak company or a sick industrial company whose shares are listed.
Explanation.– For the purpose of these regulations, “a financially weak company” means a company, which has at the end of the previous financial year accumulated losses, which has resulted in erosion of more than fifty percent but less than hundred percent of its net worth as at the beginning of the previous financial year.
(v)special purpose vehicles which are created by the fund for the purpose of facilitating or promoting investment in accordance with these regulations:
Provided that the investment conditions and restrictions stipulated in clause (a) and clause (b) of sub-regulation (2) shall be achieved by the fund by the end of its life cycle.
(c)such funds may enter into an agreement with merchant banker to subscribe to the unsubscribed portion of the issue or to receive or deliver securities in the process of market making under Chapter XB of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 and the provisions of clause (a) and clause (b) of sub-regulation (2) shall not apply in case of acquisition or sale of securities pursuant to such subscription or market making.
(d)such funds shall be exempt from regulation 3 and 3A of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 in respect of investment in companies listed on SME Exchange or SME segment of an exchange pursuant to due diligence of such companies subject to the following conditions:
(i)the fund shall disclose any acquisition or dealing in securities pursuant to such due-diligence, within two working days of such acquisition or dealing, to the stock exchanges where the investee company is listed;
(ii)such investment shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of investment.
(3)The following conditions shall apply to SME Funds in addition to conditions laid down in sub-regulation (1):-
(a)atleast seventy five percent of the 23[investable funds] shall be invested in unlisted securities or partnership interest of venture capital undertakings or investee companies which are SMEs or in companies listed or proposed to be listed on SME exchange or SME segment of an exchange;
(b)such funds may enter into an agreement with merchant banker to subscribe to the unsubscribed portion of the issue or to receive or deliver securities in the process of market making under Chapter XB of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009;
(c)such funds shall be exempt from regulation 3 and 3A of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 in respect of investment in companies listed on SME Exchange or SME segment of an exchange pursuant to due diligence of such companies subject to the following conditions:
(i)the fund shall disclose any acquisition or dealing in securities pursuant to such due-diligence, within two working days of such acquisition or dealing, to the stock exchanges where the investee company is listed;
(ii)such investment shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of investment.
(4)The following conditions shall apply to social venture funds in addition to the conditions laid down in sub-regulation (1):-
(a)atleast seventy five percent of the 24[investable funds] shall be invested in unlisted securities or partnership interest of social ventures.
23Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013 for the word “corpus”
24Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013 for the word “corpus”
(b)such funds may accept grants, provided that such utilization of such grants shall be restricted to clause (a)25[:]
26[Provided that the amount of grant that may be accepted by the fund from any person shall not be less than twenty-five lakh rupees:
Provided further that no profits or gains shall accrue to the provider of such grants.]
(c)such funds may give grants to social ventures, provided that appropriate disclosure is made in the placement memorandum.
(d)such funds may accept muted returns for their investors i.e. they may accept returns on their investments which may be lower than prevailing returns for similar investments.
(5)The following conditions shall apply to Infrastructure Funds in addition to conditions laid down in sub-regulation (1):-
(a)atleast seventy five percent of the 27[investable funds] shall be invested in unlisted securities or units or partnership interest of venture capital undertaking or investee companies or special purpose vehicles, which are engaged in or formed for the purpose of operating, developing or holding infrastructure projects;
17.The following investment conditions shall apply to Category II Alternative Investment Funds:-
25Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013 for the symbol “.”.
26Inserted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013
27Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013 for the word “corpus”
(a)Category II Alternative Investment Funds shall invest primarily in unlisted investee companies or in units of other Alternative Investment Funds as may be specified in the placement memorandum;
(b)Fund of Category II Alternative Investment Funds may invest in units of Category I or Category II Alternative Investment Funds:
Provided that they shall only invest in such units and shall not invest in units of other Fund of Funds.
(c)Category II Alternative Investment Funds may not borrow funds directly or indirectly and shall not engage in leverage except for meeting temporary funding requirements for not more than thirty days, not more than four occasions in a year and not more than ten percent of the 28[investable funds];
(d)Notwithstanding clause (c), Category II Alternative Investment Funds may engage in hedging, subject to guidelines as specified by the Board from time to time;
(e)Category II Alternative Investment Funds may enter into an agreement with merchant banker to subscribe to the unsubscribed portion of the issue or to receive or deliver securities in the process of market making under Chapter XB of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009.
(f)Category II Alternative Investment Funds shall be exempt from regulation 3 and 3A of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 in respect of investment in companies listed on SME Exchange or SME segment of an exchange pursuant to due diligence of such companies subject to the following conditions:
(i)the fund shall disclose any acquisition or dealing in securities pursuant to such due- diligence, within two working days of such acquisition or dealing, to the stock exchanges where the investee company is listed;
(ii)such investment shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of investment.
28Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013 for the word “corpus”
18.The following investment conditions shall apply to Category III Alternative Investment Funds:-
(a)Category III Alternative Investment Funds may invest in securities of listed or unlisted investee companies or derivatives or complex or structured products;
29[(aa) Category III Alternative Investment Funds may deal in goods received in delivery against physical settlement of commodity derivatives;]
(b) 30[Fund of Category III] Alternative Investment Funds may invest in units of Category I or Category II Alternative Investment Funds:
Provided that they invest solely in such units and shall not invest in units of other Fund of Funds.
(c)Category III Alternative Investment Funds may engage in leverage or borrow subject to consent from the investors in the fund and subject to a maximum limit, as may be specified by the Board:
Provided that such funds shall disclose information regarding the overall level of leverage employed, the level of leverage arising from borrowing of cash, the level of leverage arising from position held in derivatives or in any complex product and the main source of leverage in their fund to the investors and to the Board periodically, as may be specified by the Board.
(d)Category III Alternative Investment Funds shall be regulated through issuance of directions regarding areas such as operational standards, conduct of business rules, prudential requirements, restrictions on redemption and conflict of interest as may be specified by the Board.
Other Alternative Investment Fund.
29Inserted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f 10-05-2019.
19A. For the purposes of this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions and variations shall be construed accordingly,-
(1)“angel fund” means a sub-category of Venture Capital Fund under Category I- Alternative Investment Fund that raises funds from angel investors and invests in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
(2)"angel investor" means any person who proposes to invest in an angel fund and satisfies one of the following conditions, namely,
(a)an individual investor who has net tangible assets of at least two crore rupees excluding value of his principal residence, and who:
(i)has early stage investment experience, or
(ii)has experience as a serial entrepreneur, or
(iii)is a senior management professional with at least ten years of experience;
Explanation: For the purpose of this clause, 'early stage investment experience' shall mean prior experience in investing in start-up or emerging or early-stage ventures and 'serial entrepreneur' shall mean a person who has promoted or co-promoted more than one start-up venture.
31Inserted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013
(b)a body corporate with a net worth of at least ten crore rupees; or
(c)an Alternative Investment Fund registered under these regulations or a Venture Capital Fund registered under the SEBI (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996.
(3)"company with family connection" means: a. if the angel investor is an individual,
i.any company which is promoted by such an individual or his relative; or
ii.any company where the individual or his relative is a director; or
iii.any company where the person or his relative has control, or shares or voting rights which entitle them to fifteen percent or more of the shares or voting rights in the company.
Explanation I: For the purpose of this clause, "relative" means a person as defined under 32[ sub-section 77 of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013].
Explanation II: For the purpose of this clause, "control" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.
b. if the angel investor is a body corporate,
i. any company which is a subsidiary or a holding company of the investor;
or
ii.any company which is part of the same group or under the same management of the investor; or
Explanation: For the purpose of this clause, "part of the same group" and "under the same management" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under regulation 23 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009.
32Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “section 6 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)”.
iii.any company where the body corporate or its directors/partners have control, or shares or voting rights which entitle them to fifteen percent or more of the shares or voting rights in the company.
Explanation: For the purpose of this clause, "control" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.
19B. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to angel funds and schemes launched by such
angel funds.
(2)All other provisions of these regulations, except clauses (a), (b), (c), (d) and (f) of regulation 10, regulation 12, regulation 14, clauses (a), (c) and (e) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 15, clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 16 and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 16, and the guidelines and circulars issued under these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires or repugnant to the provisions of this Chapter, shall apply to angel funds, their sponsors and managers and angel investors.
19C. (1) An applicant may apply for registration as an angel fund in accordance with the provisions of Chapter II of these Regulations.
(2)An Alternative Investment Fund already registered under these regulations, which has not made any investments, may apply for conversion of its category into an angel fund under the provisions of this Chapter and the provisions of Chapter II shall apply as they apply to a fresh registration.
19D. (1) Angel funds shall only raise funds by way of issue of units to angel investors.
(2)An angel fund shall have a corpus of at least 33[five] crore rupees.
(3)Angel funds shall accept, up to a maximum period of 34[five] years, an investment of not less than twenty five lakh rupees from an angel investor.
(4)Angel fund shall raise funds through private placement by issue of information memorandum or placement memorandum, by whatever name called.
35[Provided that the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 shall apply to the Angel Fund, if it is formed as a company.]
19E. 36[(1) The angel fund may launch schemes subject to filing of a term sheet with the Board, containing material information regarding the scheme, in the format and time period as may be specified by the Board.]
37[***]
38[***]
33Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “ten”.
34Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “three”.
35Inserted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018.
36Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “The angel fund may launch schemes subject to filing of a scheme memorandum at least ten working days prior to launch of the scheme with the Board:
Provided that payment of scheme fees shall not apply to schemes launched by angel funds.”.
37Omitted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the omission, it read as “(2) Such scheme memorandum shall contain all material information about the investments proposed under such scheme.”
38Omitted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the omission, it read as “(3) The Board may communicate its comments, if any, to the applicant prior to launch of the Scheme and the applicant shall incorporate the comments in the scheme memorandum prior to launch of the scheme.”
39[(2)] No scheme of the angel fund shall have more than 40[two hundred] angel investors.
41[Provided that the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 shall apply to the Angel Fund, if it is formed as a company.]
19F. (1) Angel funds shall invest 42[***] in venture capital undertakings which:
(a) 43[complies with the criteria regarding the age of the venture capital undertaking/startup issued by the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of India vide notification no. G.S.R. 180(E) dated February 17, 2016 or such other policy made in this regard which may be in force;]
(b)have a turnover of less than twenty five crore rupees;
(c)are not promoted or sponsored by or related to an industrial group whose group turnover exceeds three hundred crore rupees; and
Explanation I: For the purpose of this clause, "industrial group" shall include a group of
body corporates with the same promoter(s)/promoter group, a parent company and its
subsidiaries, a group of body corporates in which the same person/ group of persons
exercise control, and a group of body corporates comprised of associates/subsidiaries/holding companies.
Explanation II: For the purpose of this clause, "group turnover" shall mean combined total revenue of the industrial group.
39Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “(4)”
40Substituted for the words “forty nine” by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 04-01-2017.
41Inserted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018.
42The word “only” was omitted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f.
04-01-2017.
43Substituted for the words “have been incorporated during the preceding three years from the date of such investment;” by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 04-01-2017.
(d)are not companies with family connection with any of the angel investors who are investing in the company.
(2)Investment by an angel fund in any venture capital undertaking shall not be less than 44[twenty five] lakh rupees and shall not exceed 45[ten crores] rupees.
(3)Investment by an angel fund in the venture capital undertaking shall be locked-in for a
period of 46[one year].
(4)Angel funds shall not invest in associates.
(5)Angel funds shall not invest more than twenty-five per cent of the total investments under all its schemes in one venture capital undertaking:
Provided that the compliance to this sub-regulation shall be ensured by the Angel Fund at the end of its tenure.
47[(6) An angel fund may also invest in the securities of companies incorporated outside India subject to such conditions or guidelines that may be stipulated or issued by the Reserve Bank of India and the Board from time to time.]
Obligations of Sponsors and Managers of Angel Fund.
44Substituted for the words “fifty;” by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 04-01-2017.
45Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to its substitution, it read as “five crores”.
46Substituted for the words “three years;” by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations,
19G. (1) The sponsor shall ensure that the angel investors satisfy the conditions specified in sub- regulation (2) of regulation 19A.
(2)The manager or sponsor shall have a continuing interest in the angel fund of not less than two and half percent of the corpus or fifty lakh rupees, whichever is lesser, and such interest shall not be through the waiver of management fees.
(3)The manager of the angel fund shall obtain an undertaking from every angel investor proposing to make investment in a venture capital undertaking, confirming his approval for such an investment, prior to making such an investment.
20.(1) All Alternative Investment Funds shall review policies and procedures, and their implementation, on a regular basis, or as a result of business developments, to ensure their continued appropriateness.
(2)The Sponsor or Manager of Alternative Investment Fund shall appoint a custodian registered with the Board for safekeeping of securities if the corpus of the Alternative Investment Fund is more than five hundred crore rupees:
Provided that the Sponsor or Manager of a Category III Alternative Investment Fund shall appoint such custodian irrespective of the size of corpus of the Alternative Investment Fund.
48[Provided further that the custodian appointed by Category III Alternative Investment Fund shall keep custody of securities and goods received in delivery against physical settlement of commodity derivatives.]
(3)All Alternative Investment Funds shall inform the Board in case of any change in the Sponsor, Manager or designated partners or any other material change from the information provided by the Alternative Investment Fund at the time of application for registration.
(4)In case of change in control of the Alternative Investment Fund, Sponsor or Manager, prior approval from the Board shall be taken by the Alternative Investment Fund.
(5)The books of accounts of the Alternative Investment Fund shall be audited annually by a qualified auditor.
48Inserted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 10-05-2019.
21.(1) The Sponsor and Manager of the Alternative Investment Fund shall act in a fiduciary capacity towards its investors and shall disclose to the investors, all conflicts of interests as and when they arise or seem likely to arise.
(2)Manager shall establish and implement written policies and procedures to identify, monitor and appropriately mitigate conflicts of interest throughout the scope of business.
(3)Managers and Sponsors of Alternative Investment Fund shall abide by high level principles on avoidance of conflicts of interest with associated persons, as may be specified by the Board from time to time.
22.All Alternative Investment Funds shall ensure transparency and disclosure of information to investors on the following:
(a)financial, risk management, operational, portfolio, and transactional information regarding fund investments shall be disclosed periodically to the investors;
(b)any fees ascribed to the Manager or Sponsor; and any fees charged to the Alternative Investment Fund or any investee company by an associate of the Manager or Sponsor shall be disclosed periodically to the investors;
(c)any inquiries/ legal actions by legal or regulatory bodies in any jurisdiction, as and when occurred;
(d)any material liability arising during the Alternative Investment Fund’s tenure shall be
disclosed, as and when occurred;
(e)any breach of a provision of the placement memorandum or agreement made with the investor or any other fund documents, if any, as and when occurred;
(f)change in control of the Sponsor or Manager or Investee Company.
(g)Alternative Investment Fund shall provide at least on an annual basis, within 180 days from the year end, reports to investors including the following information, as may be applicable to the Alternative Investment Fund:-
A.financial information of investee companies.
B.material risks and how they are managed which may include:
(i) concentration risk at fund level; (ii) foreign exchange risk at fund level;
(iii)leverage risk at fund and investee company levels;
(iv)realization risk (i.e. change in exit environment) at fund and investee company levels;
(v)strategy risk (i.e. change in or divergence from business strategy) at investee company level;
(vi)reputation risk at investee company level;
(vii)extra-financial risks, including environmental, social and corporate governance risks, at fund and investee company level.
23.(1) The Alternative Investment Fund shall provide to its investors, a description of its valuation procedure and of the methodology for valuing assets.
(2)Category I and Category II Alternative Investment Funds shall undertake valuation of their investments, atleast once in every six months, by an independent valuer appointed by the Alternative Investment Fund:
Provided that such period may be enhanced to one year on approval of atleast seventy-five percent of the investors by value of their investment in the Alternative Investment Fund.
(3)Category III Alternative Investment Funds shall ensure that calculation of the net asset value (NAV) is independent from the fund management function of the Alternative Investment Fund and such NAV shall be disclosed to the investors at intervals not longer than a quarter for close ended Funds and at intervals not longer than a month for open ended funds.
24.The Manager shall be obliged to:
(a)address all investor complaints;
(b)provide to the Board any information sought by Board;
(c)maintain all records as may be specified by the Board;
(d)take all steps to address conflict of interest as specified in these regulations;
(e)ensure transparency and disclosure as specified in the regulations.
25.An Alternative Investment Fund, by itself or through the Manager or Sponsor, shall lay down procedure for resolution of disputes between the investors, Alternative Investment Fund, Manager or Sponsor through arbitration or any such mechanism as mutually decided between the investors and the Alternative Investment Fund.
26.(1) The Board may at any time call for any information from an Alternative Investment Fund or its Manager or Sponsor or trustee or investor with respect to any matter relating to its activity as an Alternative Investment Fund or for the assessment of systemic risk or prevention of fraud.
(2)Where any information is called for under sub-regulation (1) it shall be furnished within the time specified by the Board.
27.(1) The Manager or Sponsor shall be required to maintain following records describing:
(a)the assets under the scheme/fund;
(b)valuation policies and practices;
(c)investment strategies;
(d)particulars of investors and their contribution;
(e)rationale for investments made.
28.The Board may at any time call upon the Alternative Investment Fund to file such reports, as the Board may desire, with respect to the activities carried on by the Alternative Investment Fund.
29.(1) An Alternative Investment Fund set up as a trust shall be wound up:
(a)when the tenure of the Alternative Investment Fund or all schemes launched by the Alternative Investment Fund, as mentioned in the placement memorandum is over; or
(b)if it is the opinion of the trustees or the trustee company, as the case may be, that the Alternative Investment Fund be wound up in the interests of investors in the units; or
(c)if seventy five percent of the investors by value of their investment in the Alternative Investment Fund pass a resolution at a meeting of unitholders that the Alternative Investment Fund be wound up; or
(d)if the Board so directs in the interests of investors.
(2)An Alternative Investment Fund set up as a limited liability partnership shall be wound up in accordance with the provisions of The Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008:
(a)when the tenure of the Alternative Investment Fund or all schemes launched by the Alternative Investment Fund, as mentioned in the placement memorandum is over; or
(b)if seventy five percent of the investors by value of their investment in the Alternative Investment Fund pass a resolution at a meeting of unitholders that the Alternative Investment Fund be wound up; or
(c)if the Board so directs in the interests of investors.
(3)An Alternative Investment Fund set up as a company shall be wound up in accordance with the provisions of the 49[Companies Act, 2013].
(4)An Alternative Investment Fund set up as a body corporate shall be wound up in accordance with the provisions of the statute under which it is constituted.
(5)The trustees or trustee company or the Board of Directors or designated partners of the Alternative Investment Fund, as the case maybe, shall intimate the Board and investors of the circumstances leading to the winding up of the Alternative Investment Fund.
(6)On and from the date of intimation under sub-regulation (5) of regulation 29, no further investments shall be made on behalf of the Alternative Investment Fund so wound up.
(7)Within one year from the date of intimation under sub-regulation (5) of regulation 29, the assets shall be liquidated, and the proceeds accruing to investors in the Alternative Investment Fund shall be distributed to them after satisfying all liabilities.
(8)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (7) and subject to the conditions, if any, contained in the placement memorandum or contribution agreement or subscription agreement, as the case may be, in specie distribution of assets of the Alternative Investment Fund, shall be made by the Alternative Investment Fund at any time, including on winding
49Substituted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to its substitution, it read as “Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)”.
30.The Board may suo motu or upon receipt of information or complaint appoint one or more persons as Inspecting Authority to undertake inspection of the books of account, records and documents relating to an Alternative Investment Fund for any of the following reasons, namely, —
(a)to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being maintained by the Alternative Investment Fund in the manner specified in these regulations;
(b)to inspect complaints received from investors, clients or any other person, on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the Alternative Investment Fund;
(c)to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act and these regulations are being complied with by the Alternative Investment Fund;
(d)to inspect suo motu the affairs of an Alternative Investment Fund, in the interest of the securities market or in the interest of investors.
31.(1) Before ordering an inspection under regulation 30, the Board shall give not less than ten days notice to the Alternative Investment Fund.
(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1) where the Board is satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may by an order in writing
direct that the inspection of the affairs of the Alternative Investment Fund be taken up without such notice.
(3)During the course of an inspection, the Alternative Investment Fund against whom the inspection is being carried out shall be bound to discharge its obligations as provided in regulation 32.
32.(1) It shall be the duty of every officer of the Alternative Investment Fund in respect of whom an inspection has been ordered under regulation 30 and any other associated person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of such Alternative Investment Fund including Manager, if any, to produce to the Inspecting Authority such books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control and furnish him with such statements and information as the said Authority may require for the purposes of the inspection.
(2)It shall be the duty of every officer of the Alternative Investment Fund and any other associated person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of the Alternative Investment Fund including the manager to give to the Inspecting Authority all such assistance and shall extend all such co-operation as may be required in connection with the inspection and shall furnish such information as sought by the Inspecting Authority in connection with the inspection.
(3)The Inspecting Authority shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to examine on oath and record the statement of any employees, directors or person responsible for or connected with the activities of Alternative Investment Fund or any other associated person having relevant information pertaining to such Alternative Investment Fund.
(4)The Inspecting Authority shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to obtain authenticated copies of documents, books, accounts of Alternative Investment Fund, from any person having control or custody of such documents, books or accounts.
33.The Inspecting Authority shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection submit an inspection report to the Board:
Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit an interim report.
34.The Board may after consideration of the inspection report and after giving reasonable opportunity of hearing to the Alternative Investment Fund or its trustees, directors or manager issue such direction as it deems fit in the interest of securities market or the investors including directions in the nature of :—
(a)requiring an Alternative Investment Fund not to launch new schemes or raise money from investors for a particular period;
(b)prohibiting the person concerned from disposing of any of the properties of the fund or scheme acquired in violation of these regulations;
(c)requiring the person connected to dispose of the assets of the fund or scheme in a manner as may be specified in the directions;
(d)requiring the person concerned to refund any money or the assets to the concerned investors along with the requisite interest or otherwise, collected under the scheme;
35.(1) An Alternative Investment Fund which—
(a)contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or these regulations;
(b)fails to furnish any information relating to its activity as an Alternative Investment Fund as required by the Board;
(c)furnishes to the Board information which is false or misleading in any material particular;
(d)does not submit periodic returns or reports as required by the Board;
(e)does not co-operate in any enquiry, inspection or investigation conducted by the Board;
(f)fails to resolve the complaints of investors or fails to give a satisfactory reply to the Board in this behalf,
shall be dealt with in the manner provided under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.
35A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
50Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17-04-2020.
(2)Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis.
36.In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars or issue separate circular or guidelines or framework for each category of Alternative Investment Funds.
37.The powers exercisable by the Board under these regulations shall also be exercisable by any officer of the Board to whom such powers are delegated by the Board by means of an order made under section 19 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.
38.The regulations specified in the Third Schedule to these regulations shall be amended in the manner and to the extent stated therein.
39.(1) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996 hereby shall stand repealed.
(2)Notwithstanding such repeal:
(a)Anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken, including suspension or cancellation of certificate of registration, any inquiry or investigation commenced or show cause notice issued under the repealed regulations, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of these regulations;
(b)All venture capital funds or schemes launched by such venture capital funds prior to date of notification of these regulations shall continue to be governed by provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations,
1996 till the fund or Scheme is wound up:
Provided that such funds shall not launch any new Scheme after notification of these regulations;
(c)Any application made to the Board under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996 and pending before it shall be deemed to have been made under the corresponding provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012.
1.(i) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) Regulations, 2018.
(ii) These regulations shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.(i) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:—
Page 1 of 41
a)‘Act’ means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);
b)‘associate’ includes a person,—
i)who directly or indirectly by himself or in combination with relatives, exercise control over the company or,
ii)whose employee, officer or director is also a director, officer or employee of company;
c)“Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 of the Act;
d)‘Buyback period’ means the period between the date of board of directors resolution or date of declaration of results of the postal ballot for special resolution, as the case may be, to authorize buyback of shares of the company and the date on which the payment of consideration to shareholders who have accepted the buyback offer is made;
e)‘control’ has the same meaning as defined in clause (e) of sub- regulation (1) of regulation (2) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
f)‘company’ means a company as defined under the Companies
Act, whose shares or other specified securities are listed on a Stock Exchange and which buys or intends to buy such shares or other specified securities in accordance with these regulations;
g)‘Companies Act’ means the Companies Act, 2013.
h)‘insider’ means an insider as defined in clause (g) of sub-
Page 2 of 41
regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
i)‘merchant banker’ means a merchant banker as defined in clause (cb) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992 and registered under section 12 of the Act;
j)‘odd lots’ mean the lots of shares or other specified securities of a company, whose shares are listed on a recognised stock exchange, which are smaller than such marketable lots, as may be specified by the stock exchange;
k)‘promoter’ means promoter as defined in clause (s) of sub- regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
l)‘registrar’ means a registrar to an issue and includes a share transfer agent, registered under section 12 of the Act;
m)‘securities’ mean securities as defined in clause (h) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956);
(n)‘small shareholder’ means a shareholder of a company, who holds shares or other specified securities whose market value, on the basis of closing price of shares or other specified securities, on the recognised stock exchange in which highest trading volume in respect of such securities, as on record date is not more than two lakh rupee;
n)‘specified securities’ includes employees’ stock option or other securities as may be notified by the Central Government from time to time;
Page 3 of 41
o)‘statutory auditor’ means an auditor appointed by a company under section 139 of the Companies Act;
p)‘stock exchange’ means a stock exchange which has been granted recognition under section 4 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956);
q)‘tender offer’ means an offer by a company to buy-back its own shares or other specified securities through a letter of offer from the holders of the shares or other specified securities of the company;
r)‘unpublished price sensitive information’ has the same meaning as defined in clause (n) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
3.These regulations shall be applicable to buy-back of shares or other specified securities of a company in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Companies Act.
Page 4 of 41
1[Explanation: For the purposes of these regulations, the term “shares” shall
include equity shares having superior voting rights.]
4.(i) The maximum limit of any buy-back shall be twenty-five per cent or less of the aggregate of paid-up capital and free reserves of the company2[, based on both standalone and consolidated financial statements of the company]:
Explanation: In respect of the buy-back of equity shares in any financial year, the reference to twenty-five per cent in this regulation shall be construed with respect to its total paid-up equity capital in that financial year;
3[(ii) The ratio of the aggregate of secured and unsecured debts owed by the company to the paid-up capital and free reserves after buy-back shall,-
a)be less than or equal to 2:1, based on both standalone and consolidated financial statements of the company:
Provided that if a higher ratio of the debt to capital and free reserves for the company has been notified under the Companies Act, 2013, the same shall prevail; or
b)be less than or equal to 2:1, based on both standalone and consolidated financial statements of the company, after excluding financial statements of all subsidiaries that are non-banking financial companies and housing finance companies regulated by Reserve Bank of India or National Housing Bank, as the case may be:
1 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 29.07.2019.
2Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 19.10.2019.
3Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 19.10.2019 read with corrigendum thereto dated 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (ii) read as follows,-
“(ii) The ratio of the aggregate of secured and unsecured debts owed by the company after buy-back shall not be more than twice the paid-up capital and free reserves.
Provided that if a higher ratio of the debt to capital and free reserves for the company has been notified under the Companies Act, 2013, the same shall prevail.”
Page 5 of 41
Provided that buy-back of securities shall be permitted only if all such excluded subsidiaries have their ratio of aggregate of secured and unsecured debts to the paid-up capital and free reserves of not more than 6:1 on standalone basis.]
(iii)All shares or other specified securities for buy-back shall be fully paid-up.
(iv)A company may buy-back its shares or other specified securities by any one of the following methods:
a)from the existing share holders or other specified securities holders on a proportionate basis through the tender offer;
b)from the open market through—
i)book-building process,
ii)stock exchange;
c)from odd-lot holders:
4[ Provided that the buyback from open market shall be less than fifteen per cent of the paid up capital and free reserves of the company, based on both standalone and consolidated financial statements of the company.]
(v)A company shall not buy-back its shares or other specified securities so as to delist its shares or other specified securities from the stock exchange.
(vi)A company shall not buy-back its shares or other specified securities from
any person through negotiated deals, whether on or off the stock
4Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 19.10.2019. Prior to its substitution, the proviso read as follows,-
“Provided that no offer of buy-back for fifteen per cent or more of the paid up capital and free reserves of the company shall be made from the open market.”
Page 6 of 41
exchange or through spot transactions or through any private arrangement.
(vii)A company shall not make any offer of buy-back within a period of one year reckoned from the date of expiry of buyback period of the preceding offer of buy-back, if any.
(viii)A company shall not allow buy-back of its shares unless the consequent reduction of its share capital is effected.
(ix)A company may undertake a buy-back of its own shares or other specified
securities out of—
(a)
its free reserves;
(b)
the securities premium account; or
(c)
the proceeds of the issue of any shares or other specified
 
securities:
Provided that no such buy-back shall be made out of the proceeds of an earlier issue of the same kind of shares or same kind of other specified securities.
(x)No company shall directly or indirectly purchase its own shares or other specified securities:
(a)through any subsidiary company including its own subsidiary companies;
(b)through any investment company or group of investment companies; or
(c)if a default is made by the company in the repayment of deposits accepted either before or after the commencement of the Companies Act, interest payment thereon, redemption of debentures or preference shares or payment of dividend to any shareholder, or repayment of any term loan or interest payable thereon to any financial institution or banking company:
Provided that the buy-back is not prohibited, if the default is
Page 7 of 41
remedied and a period of three years has lapsed after such default ceased to subsist.
5.(i) The company shall not authorise any buy-back (whether by way of tender offer or from open market or odd lot) unless:
a)The buy-back is authorised by the company's articles;
b)A special resolution has been passed at a general meeting of the company authorising the buy-back:
Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to a case where the buy-back is, ten per cent or less of the total paid-up equity capital and free reserves of the company5[, based on both standalone and consolidated financial statements of the company]; and such buy-back has been authorised by the board of directors by means of a resolution passed at its meeting.
(ii)Every buy-back shall be completed within a period of one year from the date of passing of the special resolution at general meeting, or the resolution passed by the board of directors of the company, as the case may be.
(iii)The company shall, after expiry of the buy-back period, file with the Registrar of Companies and the Board, a return containing such particulars relating to the buy-back within thirty days of such expiry, in the format as specified in the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014.
(iv)Where a special resolution is required for authorizing a buy-back, the explanatory statement to be annexed with the notice for the general
5Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 19.10.2019.
Page 8 of 41
meeting pursuant to section 102 of the Companies Act shall contain mandatory disclosures mentioned therein and the following disclosures:
a)Disclosures under sub-section 3 of section 68 of the Companies Act—
i)a full and complete disclosure of all material facts;
ii)the necessity for the buy-back;
iii)the class of shares or securities intended to be purchased under the buy-back;
iv)the amount to be invested under the buy-back; and
v)the time-limit for completion of buy-back.
b)Additional disclosures under these regulations as provided in Schedule I,
c)Provided that where the buy-back is through tender offer from existing securities holders , the explanatory statement shall contain the following additional disclosures:
i)the maximum price at which the buy-back of shares or other specified securities shall be made and whether the board of directors of the company is being authorised at the general meeting to determine subsequently the specific price at which the buy-back may be made at the appropriate time;
ii)if the promoter intends to offer his shares or other specified securities, the quantum of shares or other specified securities proposed to be tendered and the details of their transactions and their holdings for the last six months prior to the passing of the special resolution for buy-back including information of number of shares or other specified securities acquired, the price and the date of acquisition.
(v)A copy of the resolution passed at the general meeting under sub-
Page 9 of 41
section (2) of section 68 of the Companies Act shall be filed with the Board and the stock exchanges where the shares or other specified securities of the company are listed, within seven days from the date of passing of the resolution.
(vi)Where the buy-back is from open market either through the stock exchange or through book building, the resolution of board of directors shall specify the maximum price at which the buy-back shall be made:
Provided that where there is a requirement for the Special Resolution as specified in clause (b) of sub-regulation 1 of regulation 5 of these Regulations, the special resolution shall also specify the maximum price at which the buy-back shall be made.
(vii)A company, authorized by a resolution passed by the board of directors at its meeting to buy-back its shares or other specified securities under the proviso to clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 68 of the Companies Act, shall file a copy of the resolution, with the Board and the stock exchanges, where the shares or other specified securities of the company are listed, within two working days of the date of the passing of the resolution.
(viii)No insider shall deal in shares or other specified securities of the company on the basis of unpublished price sensitive information relating to buy-back of shares or other specified securities of the company.
6.A company may buy-back its shares or other specified securities from its existing securities holders on a proportionate basis in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter:
Provided that fifteen per cent of the number of securities which the company proposes to buy-back or number of securities entitled as per their shareholding, whichever is higher, shall be reserved for small shareholders.
7.(i) The company which has been authorised by a special resolution or a resolution passed by the board of directors, as the case may be, shall make a public announcement within two working days from the date of declaration of results of the postal ballot for special resolution/board of directors resolution in at least one English National Daily, one Hindi National Daily and one Regional language daily, all with wide circulation at the place where the Registered Office of the company is situated and the said public announcement shall contain all the material information as specified in Schedule II.
(ii)A copy of the public announcement along with the soft copy, shall also be submitted to the Board, simultaneously, through a merchant banker.
8.(i) The company shall within five working days of the public announcement file the following with the Board:
a)a draft letter of offer, along with a soft copy, containing disclosures as specified in Schedule III through a merchant banker who is not associated with the company.
b)a declaration of solvency in specified form and in a manner provided in sub-section (6) of section 68 of the Companies Act.
Page 11 of 41
c)fees specified in Schedule V.
(ii)The Board may provide its comments on the draft letter of offer not later than seven working days of the receipt of the draft letter of offer:
Provided that in the event the Board has sought clarifications or additional information from the merchant banker to the buy-back offer, the period of issuance of comments shall be extended to the seventh working day from the date of receipt of satisfactory reply to the clarification or additional information sought:
Provided further that in the event the Board specifies any changes, the merchant banker to the buy-back offer and the company shall carryout such changes in the letter of offer before it is dispatched to the shareholders.
9.(i) A company making a buy-back offer shall announce a record date in the public announcement for the purpose of determining the entitlement and the names of the security holders, who are eligible to participate in the proposed buy-back offer.
(ii)The letter of offer along with the tender form shall be dispatched to the securities holders who are eligible to participate in the buy-back offer as per sub regulation (i), not later than five working days from the receipt of communication of comments from the Board.
Explanation: (a) Letter of Offer may also be dispatched through electronic mode in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act.
(b)On receipt of a request from any shareholder to receive a copy of the letter of offer in physical form, the same shall be provided.
(c)The aforesaid shall be disclosed in the letter of offer.
(iii)Even if an eligible public shareholder does not receive the tender
Page 12 of 41
offer/offer form, he may participate in the buy-back offer and tender shares in the manner as provided by the Board.
(iv)An unregistered shareholder may also tender his shares for buy-back by submitting the duly executed transfer deed for transfer of shares in his name, along with the offer form and other relevant documents as required for transfer, if any.
(v)The date of the opening of the offer shall be not later than five working days from the date of dispatch of the letter of offer.
(vi)The offer for buy-back shall remain open for a period of ten working
days.
(vii)The company shall facilitate tendering of shares by the shareholders and settlement of the same, through the stock exchange mechanism in the manner as provided by the Board.
(viii)The company shall accept shares or other specified securities from the securities holders on the basis of their entitlement as on record date.
(ix)The shares proposed to be bought back shall be divided into two categories; (a) reserved category for small shareholders and (b) the general category for other shareholders, and the entitlement of a shareholder in each category shall be calculated accordingly.
‘Explanation: Holdings of multiple demat accounts would be clubbed together for identification of small shareholder if sequence of Permanent Account Number for all holders is matching. Similarly, in case of physical shareholders, if the sequence of names of joint holders is matching, holding under such folios should be clubbed together for identification of small shareholder.’
(x)After accepting the shares or other specified securities tendered on the basis of entitlement, shares or other specified securities left to be bought
Page 13 of 41
back, if any in one category shall first be accepted, in proportion to the shares or other specified securities tendered over and above their entitlement in the offer by securities holders in that category and thereafter from securities holders who have tendered over and above their entitlement in other category.
(xi)Escrow account
(a)The company shall, as and by way of security for performance of its obligations under the regulations, on or before the opening of the offer, deposit in an escrow account such sum as specified in clause (b);
(b)The escrow amount shall be payable in the following manner:
(i)if the consideration payable does not exceed Rupees 100 crores; 25 per cent of the consideration payable;
(ii)if the consideration payable exceeds Rupees 100 crores; 25 per cent upto Rupees 100 crores and 10 per cent thereafter.
(c)The escrow account referred to in this regulation shall consist of,
(i)cash deposited with a scheduled commercial bank, or
(ii)bank guarantee in favour of the merchant banker, or
(iii)deposit of acceptable securities with appropriate margin, with the merchant banker, or
(iv)a combination of (i), (ii) and (iii).
Explanation: The cash component of the escrow account may be maintained in an interest bearing account, provided that the merchant banker ensures that the funds are available at the time of making payment to shareholders.
Page 14 of 41
(d)Where the escrow account consists of deposit with a scheduled commercial bank, the company shall, while opening the account, empower the merchant banker to instruct the bank to make payment the amount lying to the credit of the escrow account, as provided in the regulations.
(e)Where the escrow account consists of a bank guarantee, such bank guarantee shall be in favour of the merchant banker and shall be valid until thirty days after the expiry of buyback period.
(f)The company shall, in case the escrow account consists of securities, empower the merchant banker to realise the value of such escrow account by sale or otherwise and if there is any deficit on realisation of the value of the securities, the merchant banker shall be liable to make good any such deficit.
(g)In case the escrow account consists of bank guarantee or approved securities, these shall not be returned by the merchant banker till completion of all obligations under the regulations.
(h)Where the escrow account consists of bank guarantee or deposit of approved securities, the company shall also deposit with the bank in cash a sum of at least one per cent of the total consideration payable, as and by way of security for fulfillment of the obligations under the regulations by the company.
(i)On payment of consideration to all the securities holders who have accepted the offer and after completion of all formalities of buy-back, the amount, guarantee and securities in the escrow, if any, shall be released to the company.
(j)The Board in the interest of the securities holders may in case of nonfulfillment of obligations under the regulations by the company forfeit the escrow account either in full or in part.
Page 15 of 41
(xii)The amount forfeited under clause (j) may be distributed pro rata amongst the securities holders who accepted the offer and balance, if any, shall be utilised for investor protection.
10.(i) The company shall immediately after the date of closure of the offer, open a special account with a banker to an issue, registered with the Board and deposit therein, such sum as would, together with ninety per cent of the amount lying in the escrow account, make-up the entire sum due and payable as consideration for buy-back in terms of these regulations and for this purpose, may transfer the funds from the escrow account.
(ii)The company shall complete the verification of offers received and make payment of consideration to those holders of securities whose offer has been accepted and return the remaining shares or other specified securities to the securities holders within seven working days of the closure of the offer.
11.(i) The company shall extinguish and physically destroy the securities certificates so bought back in the presence of a registrar to issue or the Merchant Banker and the Statutory Auditor within fifteen days of the date of acceptance of the shares or other specified securities.
Provided that the company shall ensure that all the securities bought-back are extinguished within seven days of expiry of buy-back period.
Explanation: The aforesaid period of fifteen days shall in no case extend beyond seven days of expiry of buy-back period.
(ii)The shares or other specified securities offered for buy-back if already dematerialised shall be extinguished and destroyed in the manner specified under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and
Page 16 of 41
Participants) Regulations, 1996, and the bye-laws, the circulars and guidelines framed thereunder.
(iii)The company shall, furnish a certificate to the Board certifying compliance as specified in sub-regulation (i) above, and duly certified and verified by:
a)the registrar and whenever there is no registrar, by the merchant banker;
b)two directors of the company, one of whom shall be a managing director, where there is one; and
c)the statutory auditor of the company,
This certificate shall be furnished to the Board within seven days of extinguishment and destruction of the certificates.
(iv)The company shall furnish the particulars of the securities certificates extinguished and destroyed under sub-regulation (i), to the stock exchanges where the shares of the company are listed within seven days of extinguishment and destruction of the certificates.
(v)Where a company buys back its shares or other specified securities under these regulations, it shall maintain a register of the shares or securities so bought, the consideration paid for the shares or securities bought back, the date of cancellation of shares or securities, the date of extinguishing and physically destroying the shares or securities and such other particulars as may be prescribed in sub-section (9) of section 68 of the Companies Act.
12.The provisions pertaining to buy-back through tender offer as specified in this Chapter shall be applicable mutatis mutandis to odd-lot shares or other specified securities.
14.The buy-back of shares or other specified securities from the open market may be in any one of the following methods:
(a)through stock exchange,
15.The company shall ensure that at least fifty per cent of the amount earmarked for buy-back, as specified in the resolution of the board of directors or the special resolution, as the case may be, is utilized for buying-back shares or other specified securities.
16.(i) The buy-back shall be made only on stock exchanges having nationwide trading terminals;
(ii)The buy-back of the shares or other specified securities through the stock exchange shall not be made from the promoters or persons in control of the company;
(iii)The buy-back of shares or other specified securities shall be made only through the order matching mechanism except ‘all or none’ order matching system;
(iv)Disclosures, filing requirements and timelines of public announcement:
a)The company shall appoint a merchant banker and make a public announcement as referred to in regulation 7 pertaining to
Page 18 of 41
tender offer;
b)The public announcement shall be made within two working days from the date of passing the board of directors resolution or date of declaration of results of the postal ballot for special resolution, as relevant and shall contain disclosures as specified in Schedule IV;
c)Simultaneously with the issue of such public announcement, the company shall file a copy of the public announcement with the Board along with the fees specified in Schedule V;
d)The public announcement shall also contain disclosures regarding details of the brokers and stock exchanges through which the buy-back of shares or other specified securities would be made;
Explanation: In case of the buy-back from open market, no draft letter of offer/ letter of offer is required to be filed with the Board.
17.(i) The identity of the company as a purchaser shall appear on the electronic screen when the order is placed;
(ii)The buy-back offer shall open not later than seven working days from the date of public announcement and shall close within six months from the date of opening of the offer.
18.(i) The company shall submit the information regarding the shares or other specified securities bought-back, to the stock exchange on a daily basis in such form as may be specified by the Board and the stock exchange shall upload the same on its official website immediately;
Page 19 of 41
19.A company may buy-back its shares or other specified securities in physical form in the open market through stock exchange by following the procedure as provided hereunder:
(i)A separate window shall be created by the stock exchange, which shall remain open during the period of buy-back, for buy-back of shares or other specified securities in physical form.
(ii)The company shall buy-back shares or other specified securities from eligible shareholders holding physical shares through the separate window specified in sub-regulation (i), only after verification of the identity proof and address proof by the broker.
(iii)The price at which the shares or other specified securities are bought back shall be the volume weighted average price of the shares or other specified securities bought-back, other than in the physical form, during the calendar week in which such shares or other specified securities were received by the broker:
Provided that the price of shares or other specified securities tendered during the first calendar week of the buy-back shall be the volume weighted average market price of the shares or other specified securities of the company during the preceding calendar week.
Explanation: In case no shares or other specified securities were bought back in the normal market during calendar week, the preceding week when the company has last bought back the shares or other specified securities may be considered.
20.(i) The company shall, before opening of the offer, create an escrow account
Page 20 of 41
towards security for performance of its obligations under these regulations, and deposit in escrow account 25 per cent of the amount earmarked for the buy-back as specified in the resolution of the board of directors or the special resolution, as the case may be.
(ii)The escrow account referred to in sub-regulation (i) may be in the form of,—
a)cash deposited with any scheduled commercial bank; or
b)bank guarantee issued in favour of the merchant banker by any scheduled commercial bank.
Explanation: The cash component of the escrow account may be maintained in terms of Explanation to clause (c) of sub-regulation (xi) of regulation 9.
(iii)For such part of the escrow account as is in the form of a cash deposit with a scheduled commercial bank, the company shall while opening the account, empower the merchant banker to instruct the bank to make payment of the amounts lying to the credit of the escrow account, to meet the obligations arising out of the buy-back.
(iv)For such part of the escrow account as is in the form of a bank guarantee:
a)the same shall be in favour of the merchant banker and shall be kept valid for a period of thirty days after the expiry of buyback period of the offer or till the completion of all obligations under these regulations, whichever is later.
b)the same shall not be returned by the merchant banker till completion of all obligations under the regulations.
(v)Where part of the escrow account is in the form of a bank guarantee, the company shall deposit with a scheduled commercial bank, in cash, a sum
Page 21 of 41
of at least 2.5 per cent of the total amount earmarked for buy-back as specified in the resolution of the board of directors or the special resolution, as the case may be, as and by way of security for fulfillment of the obligations under the regulations by the company.
(vi)The escrow amount may be released for making payment to the shareholders subject to at least 2.5 per cent of the amount earmarked for buy- back as specified in the resolution of the board of directors or the special resolution, as the case may be, remaining in the escrow account at all points of time.
(vii)On fulfilling the obligation specified in regulation 15, the amount and the guarantee remaining in the escrow account, if any, shall be released to the company.
(viii)In the event of non-compliance with regulation 15, the Board may direct the merchant banker to forfeit the escrow account, subject to a maximum of 2.5 per cent of the amount earmarked for buy-back as specified in the resolution of the board of directors or the special resolution, as the case may be, except in cases where,-
a)volume weighted average market price (VWAMP) of the shares or other specified securities of the company during the buy-back period was higher than the buy-back price as certified by the Merchant banker based on the inputs provided by the Stock Exchanges.
b)sell orders were inadequate despite the buy orders placed by the company as certified by the Merchant banker based on the inputs provided by the Stock Exchanges.
c)such circumstances existed which were beyond the control of the company and in the opinion of the Board merit consideration.
(ix)In the event of forfeiture for non-fulfillment of obligations specified in sub-regulation (viii) of this regulation, the amount forfeited shall be deposited
Page 22 of 41
in the Investor Protection and Education Fund of Securities and Exchange Board of India.
21.(i) Subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (ii) and (iii), the provisions of regulation 11 pertaining to the extinguishment of certificates for tender offers shall apply for extinguishment of certificates under this Chapter.
(ii)The company shall complete the verification of acceptances within fifteen days of the payout.
(iii)The company shall extinguish and physically destroy the securities certificates so bought back during the month in the presence of a Merchant Banker and the Statutory Auditor, on or before the fifteenth day of the succeeding month:
Provided that the company shall ensure that all the securities bought-back are extinguished within seven days of expiry of buy-back period.
22.A company may buy-back its shares or other specified securities through the book-building process as provided hereunder:
(i)The Special resolution or the board of directors resolution, as the case may be, shall be passed in accordance with regulation 5.
(ii)Disclosures, filing requirements and timelines for public announcement:
(a)The company shall appoint a merchant banker and make a public announcement as referred to in regulation 7.
(b)The disclosures in the public announcement shall also be in accordance with Schedule II.
Page 23 of 41
(c)The public announcement shall be made at least seven days prior to the commencement of buy-back.
(iii)Subject to the provisions of clause (a) and clause (b) of this sub- regulation, the provisions of sub-regulation (xi) of regulation 9 shall apply:
(a)The deposit in the escrow account shall be made before the date of the public announcement.
(b)The amount to be deposited in the escrow account shall be determined with reference to the maximum price as specified in the public announcement.
Explanation: The cash component of the escrow account may be maintained in terms of the Explanation to clause
(c) of sub-regulation (xi) of regulation 9.
(iv)A copy of the public announcement shall be filed with the Board within two days of such announcement along with the fees as specified in Schedule V.
(v)The public announcement shall also contain the detailed methodology of the book-building process, the manner of acceptance, the format of acceptance to be sent by the securities holders pursuant to the public announcement and the details of bidding centres.
(vi)The book-building process shall be made through an electronically linked transparent facility.
(vii)The number of bidding centers shall not be less than thirty and there shall be at least one electronically linked computer terminal at all the bidding centers.
Page 24 of 41
(viii)The offer for buy-back shall remain open to the securities holders for a period not less than fifteen days and not exceeding thirty days.
(ix)The merchant banker and the company shall determine the buy-back price based on the acceptances received.
(x)The final buy-back price, which shall be the highest price accepted shall be paid to all holders whose shares or other specified securities have been accepted for buy-back.
24.(i) The company shall ensure that,—
a)the letter of offer, the public announcement of the offer or any other advertisement, circular, brochure, publicity material shall contain true, factual and material information and shall not contain any misleading information and must state that the directors of the company accept the responsibility for the
Page 25 of 41
information contained in such documents;
b)the company shall not issue any shares or other specified securities including by way of bonus till the date of expiry of buyback period for the offer made under these regulations;
c)the company shall pay the consideration only by way of cash;
d)the company shall not withdraw the offer to buy-back after the draft letter of offer is filed with the Board or public announcement of the offer to buy-back is made;
e)the promoter(s) or his/their associates shall not deal in the shares or other specified securities of the company in the stock exchange or off-market, including inter- se transfer of shares among the promoters during the period from the date of passing the resolution of the board of directors or the special resolution, as the case may be, till the closing of the offer.
f)the company shall not raise further capital for a period of one year from the expiry of buyback period, except in discharge of its subsisting obligations.
(ii)No public announcement of buy-back shall be made during the pendency of any scheme of amalgamation or compromise or arrangement pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act.
(iii)The company shall nominate a compliance officer and investors service centre for compliance with the buy-back regulations and to redress the grievances of the investors.
(iv)The particulars of the security certificates extinguished and destroyed shall be furnished by the company to the stock exchanges where the shares or other specified securities of the company are listed within seven days of
extinguishment and destruction of the certificates.
Page 26 of 41
(v)The company shall not buy-back the locked-in shares or other specified securities and non-transferable shares or other specified securities till the pendency of the lock-in or till the shares or other specified securities become transferable.
(vi)The company shall within two days of expiry of buy-back period issue a public advertisement in a national daily, inter alia, disclosing:
a)number of shares or other specified securities bought;
b)price at which the shares or other specified securities bought;
c)total amount invested in the buy-back;
d)details of the securities holders from whom shares or other specified securities exceeding one per cent of total shares or other specified securities were bought back; and
e)the consequent changes in the capital structure and the shareholding pattern after and before the buy-back.
(vii)The company in addition to these regulations shall comply with the provisions of buy-back as contained in the Companies Act and other applicable laws.
25.The merchant banker shall ensure that—
(i)the company is able to implement the offer;
(ii)the provision relating to escrow account has been complied with;
(iii)firm arrangements for monies for payment to fulfill the obligations under the offer are in place;
(iv)the public announcement of buy-back is made in terms of the regulations;
(v)the letter of offer has been filed in terms of the regulations;
(vi)a due diligence certificate along with the draft letter of offer has been furnished to the Board;
(vii)the contents of the public announcement of offer as well as the
Page 27 of 41
letter of offer are true, fair and adequate and quoting the source wherever necessary;
(viii)due compliance of sections 68, 69 and 70 of the Companies Act and any other laws or rules as may be applicable in this regard has been made;
(ix)the bank with whom the escrow or special amount has been deposited releases the balance amount to the company only upon fulfillment of all obligations by the company under the regulations;
25A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis.
Explanation. — For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means a live testing environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.]
6Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulation, w.e.f. 17-04-2020.
26.(i) The Board may, without prejudice to its right to initiate any other enforcement action, including prosecution under section 24 of the Act, give such directions in the interest of investors in securities and the securities market, as it deems fit, including:
(a)prohibiting the person concerned from cancelling any of the securities bought back in violation of the provisions of these regulations or the Companies Act;
(b)directing the person concerned to sell or divest the shares or other specified securities acquired in violation of the provisions of these regulations or any other law or regulations;
(c)restraining the company from making a further offer for buy-back;
(ii)A copy of such direction issued by the Board shall also be forwarded to Registrar of Companies.
27.In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the provisions of these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications or guidelines from time to time.
28.(i) The Board may, in the interest of investors and the securities market, relax the strict enforcement of any requirement of these regulations except the provisions incorporated from the Companies Act, if the Board is satisfied that:
(a)the requirement is procedural in nature; or
(b)the requirement may cause undue hardship to investors;
(ii)For seeking relaxation under sub-regulation (i), the company shall file an application with the Board, supported by a duly sworn affidavit, giving details and the grounds on which such relaxation has
Page 29 of 41
been sought.
(iii)The company shall along with the application referred to under
sub-regulation (ii), pay a non-refundable fee of rupees fifty thousand, by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or by way of a banker’s cheque or demand draft payable in Mumbai in favour of the Board.
(iv)The Board may after affording reasonable opportunity of being heard to the applicant and after considering all the relevant facts and circumstances, pass a reasoned order either granting or rejecting the relaxation sought as expeditiously as possible.
29.(i) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) Regulations, 1998, shall stand repealed from the date on which these regulations come into force.
(ii)Notwithstanding such repeal,—
(a)anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken including comments on any letter of offer, exemption granted by the Board, fees collected, any adjudication, enquiry or investigation commenced or show-cause notice issued under the repealed regulations, prior to such repeal, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of these regulations;
(b)the previous operation of the repealed regulations or anything duly done or suffered thereunder, any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under the repealed
regulations, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any violation committed against the repealed regulations, or any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid, shall remain unaffected as if
Page 30 of 41
the repealed regulations has never been repealed;
(c)any buy-back offer for which a public announcement has been made under the repealed regulations shall be required to be continued and completed under the repealed regulations.
(iii)After the repeal of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) Regulations, 1998, any reference thereto in any other regulations made, guidelines or circulars issued thereunder by the Board shall be deemed to be a reference made to the corresponding provisions of these regulations.
1.(1) These regulations may be called the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2018.
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their notification in the Gazette of India.
2.(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions shall be construed accordingly,-
(a)"Act" means the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956);
(b)"associate" in relation to a person shall include another person:
(i)who, directly or indirectly, by himself, or in combination with other persons, exercises control over the first person;
(ii)who holds control of atleast twenty percent of the total voting power of the first person;
(iii)who is a holding company or a subsidiary company of the first person
(iv)who is a relative of the first person;
(v)who is a member of a Hindu Undivided Family wherein the first person is also a member;
(vi)such other cases where the Board is of the view that a person shall be considered as an associate based on the facts and factors including the extent of control, independence, conflict of interest;
(c)"Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under the provisions of section 3 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);
(d)"clearing corporation" means an entity that is established to undertake the activity of clearing and settlement of trades in securities or other instruments or products that are dealt with or traded on a recognized stock exchange and includes a clearing house;
(e)“clearing member” means a person having clearing rights in any recognized clearing corporation and includes a clearing member as defined in clause (ae) of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Stock Brokers and Sub- Brokers) Regulations, 1992
(f)"company" shall mean a company as defined in section 3 of the Companies Act, 2013;
1(***)
(h) "control" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under clause (e) of sub- regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 or any modification thereof;
(i) "governing board" means the board of directors of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation;
(j)"key management personnel" includes a person serving as head of any department or in such senior executive position that stands higher in hierarchy to the head(s) of the department(s) in the recognised stock exchange or the recognised clearing corporation, or any person who directly reports to chief executive officer or to the director on the governing board of the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation, or any person upto two levels below the chief executive
1Clause (g) omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.r.e.f. 03-10-2018. Prior to its omission, it read as “(g) ”commodity derivatives exchange" means a recognized stock exchange which assists, regulates or controls the business of buying, selling or dealing in commodity derivatives and option in securities with the prior approval of the Board.”
officer or managing director, or any other person as may be identified by its Nomination and Remuneration Committee;
(k)"netting" means the determination by clearing corporation of net payment or delivery obligations of the clearing members of a recognised clearing corporation by setting off or adjustment of the inter- se obligations or claims arising out of buying and selling of securities, including the claims and obligations arising out of the determination by the clearing corporation or stock exchange, on the insolvency, winding-up, liquidation or resolution of any clearing member or trading member or client or such other circumstances as the clearing corporation may specify in its bye-laws, of the transactions admitted for settlement at a future date, so that only a net claim be demanded, or a net obligation be owed;
(l)"novation" means the act of one or more recognised clearing corporations interposing between the parties of every trade, so as to be a legal counterparty;
(m) "persons acting in concert" in the context of acquisition or holding of shares or voting rights or control shall mutatis mutandis have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (q) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 or any amendments thereof;
(n)“public" includes any member or section of the public but does not include any trading member or clearing member or their associates and agents;
(o) "public interest director" means an independent director representing the interests of investors in securities market and who is not having any association, directly or indirectly, which in the opinion of the Board, is in conflict with his role;
(p)"recognised clearing corporation" means a clearing corporation which is recognised by the Board under section 4 read with section 8A of the Act;
(q)“recognised stock exchange” means a stock exchange which is recognized by the Board under section 4 of the Act.
(r)"regulatory department" means a department of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation which is entrusted with regulatory powers and duties and includes such department as may be specified by the Board;
(s)"rules" means the Securities Contracts (Regulations) Rules, 1957;
(t)"shareholder director" means a director who represents the interest of shareholders, and elected or nominated by such shareholders who are not trading members or clearing members, as the case may be, or their associates and agents;
(u)"trading member" means a person having trading rights in any recognized stock exchange and includes a stock broker.
3.No person shall conduct, organise or assist in organising any stock exchange or clearing corporation unless he has obtained recognition from the Board in accordance with the Act, rules and these regulations:
4.Subject to compliance with the provisions of Act, rules and these regulations, an application for recognition as a stock exchange shall be submitted to the Board in Form A as prescribed under rule 3 of the rules and an application for recognition as a clearing corporation shall be submitted to Board in Form A as specified in Schedule - I of these regulations.
5.An applicant seeking recognition as a stock exchange shall pay the application fee in terms of rule 4 of the rules and an applicant seeking recognition as a clearing corporation shall also pay the application fee as payable by a stock exchange.
6.An application for recognition as a stock exchange or a clearing corporation, as the case may be, shall be accompanied by the copy of the memorandum of association, articles of association, bye-laws and other documents as provided in sections 3 and 4 of the Act, rule 5 of the rules and these regulations.
7.(1) The application under regulation 4 shall be governed by the provisions of the Act, rules and these regulations.
(2)An applicant seeking recognition as a stock exchange or clearing corporation shall comply with the following conditions, namely :—
(a)the applicant is a company limited by shares;
(b)the applicant is demutualised;
(c)the applicant, its directors and its shareholders who hold or intend to hold shares, are fit and proper persons as specified in regulation 20;
(d)the applicant satisfies the requirements relating to the ownership and governance structure specified in these regulations;
(e)the applicant satisfies the networth requirements specified in these regulations;
(f)the applicant satisfies the requisite capability including its financial capacity, functional expertise and infrastructure.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-regulation, the term "demutualised" means that the ownership and management of the applicant is segregated from the trading rights or clearing rights, as the case may be, in terms of these regulations.
(3)An applicant seeking recognition as a stock exchange shall, in addition to the conditions as specified in sub-regulations (1) and (2), comply with the following conditions, namely:—
(a)the applicant has the necessary infrastructure for the orderly execution of trades;
(b)the applicant has an online screen-based trading system;
(c)the applicant has an online surveillance capability which monitors positions, prices and volumes in real time so as to ensure market integrity;
(d)the applicant has adequate infrastructure to list securities for trading on its platform, wherever applicable;
(e)the applicant has necessary capability to have a nationwide network of trading members and has adequate facility to admit and regulate its members;
(f)the applicant has made necessary arrangements to establish connectivity with its trading members and clearing corporation;
(g)the applicant has adequate Investor Protection Fund and Investor Services Fund;
(h)the applicant has adequate investor grievances redressal mechanism and arbitration mechanism to resolve disputes arising out of trades and its settlement;
(i)the applicant has the facility to disseminate information about trades, quantities and quotes in real time to at least two information vending networks which are accessible to investors in the country;
(j)the applicant has adequate systems' capacity supported by a business continuity plan including a disaster recovery site;
(k)the applicant has in its employment, sufficient number of persons having adequate professional and other relevant experience;
(l)the business feasibility plan has been appraised by a reputed agency having expertise in securities market; and
(m)any other conditions as may be specified by the Board.
(4)An applicant seeking recognition as a clearing corporation shall, in addition to the conditions as specified in sub-regulations (1) and (2), comply with the following conditions, namely:—
(a)the applicant has necessary infrastructure to ensure timely clearing and settlement of trades;
(b)the applicant has adequate risk management mechanism;
(c)the applicant has a settlement procedure including netting, novation and guarantee for settlement of trades in place, which is in accordance with the manner specified by the Board;
(d)the applicant has the capacity to establish a fund to guarantee settlement of trades;
(e)the applicant has necessary capability to have a wide network of clearing members and has adequate facility to admit and regulate its members;
(f)the applicant has established connectivity with the depositories, clearing banks, stock exchange and clearing members;
(g)the applicant has adequate systems' capacity for on-line/real time risk management of trades cleared and settled and is supported by a suitable business continuity plan including a disaster recovery site;
(h)the applicant has in its employment, sufficient number of persons having adequate professional and other relevant experience to the satisfaction of the Board;
(i)the applicant has the necessary arrangements in place for resolving disputes and redressal of grievances arising out of clearing and settlement of trades;
(j)the applicant has an agreement with a depository and with a recognised stock exchange in respect of clearing and settlement of the trades;
(k)the business feasibility plan has been appraised by a reputed agency having expertise in securities market; and
(l)any other conditions as may be specified by the Board.
(5)The Board may, on being satisfied with the capability of the applicant to comply with the conditions laid down in this regulation, grant in-principle approval to the applicant which shall be valid for a period of one year.
Provided that the Board may, upon sufficient cause shown by the applicant, extend the validity of in-principle approval for a further period not exceeding six months or any other period as specified by the Board.
8.The Board may, before granting recognition to a stock exchange or clearing corporation, make inquiries and require such further information or document to be furnished, as it may deem necessary.
9.(1) The Board may, after considering the application under regulation 4 and on being satisfied that the applicant has complied with the conditions laid down in regulation 7 and is eligible to act as a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation, as the case may be, grant recognition to the applicant in terms of section 4 of the Act, in the interest of the securities market.
(2)The recognition granted to a stock exchange under sub-regulation (1) shall be in Form B of the rules.
(3)The recognition granted to a clearing corporation shall be in Form B of Schedule-I of these regulations.
(4)The recognised stock exchange and the recognised clearing corporation shall comply with such other conditions, including those with regard to the nature of securities to be dealt with, as may be imposed by the Board from time to time.
10.(1) The period of recognition granted to a stock exchange shall be as per rule 6 of the rules.
(2)The recognition granted to a clearing corporation, unless granted on a permanent basis, shall be for such period not less than one year as may be specified by the Board.
11.(1) Every recognised stock exchange shall pay the regulatory fee in terms of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory Fee on Stock Exchanges) Regulations, 2006.
(2)Every recognised clearing corporation shall pay the regulatory fee as the Board may specify.
12.(1) The provisions of these regulations, as applicable to the grant of recognition to a stock exchange, shall in addition to rule 7 of the rules also apply in relation to an application for renewal of recognition of a recognised stock exchange.
(2)A recognised clearing corporation desirous of renewal of recognition shall make an application to the Board in Form A of Schedule-I of these regulations and such application shall reach the Board atleast three months prior to the date of expiry of the recognition.
(3)The provisions of these regulations, as applicable to the grant of recognition to a clearing corporation, shall also apply in relation to an application for renewal of recognition of a recognised clearing corporation.
(4)An applicant seeking renewal of recognition as a stock exchange shall pay fee in terms of rule 7 of the rules, and an applicant seeking renewal of recognition as a clearing corporation shall also pay fee as payable by a stock exchange.
(5)The recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall comply with the applicable conditions specified in sub-regulation (3) and sub-regulation (4) of regulation 7, as the case may be, on a continuous basis.
14.(1) Every recognised stock exchange shall have a minimum networth of one hundred crore rupees at all times:
(2)Every applicant seeking recognition as a clearing corporation under regulation 4 shall have a minimum networth of one hundred crore rupees:
(3)(a) Every recognized clearing corporation, on commencement of operations, shall, on an ongoing basis, maintain capital including retained earnings and reserves, as may be specified by the Board from time to time, to adequately cover counterparty credit risk, business risk, legal and operational risk.
(b)Every recognized clearing corporation shall hold additional capital to cover costs required for orderly wind-down or recovery of operations.
(c)Every recognized clearing corporation shall maintain, at all times, a minimum net worth of one hundred crore rupees or capital as determined under regulation 14(3)(a) and 14(3)(b), whichever is higher.
(4)A recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation shall not distribute profits in any manner to its shareholders until the networth specified under sub-regulations (1), (2) and (3), as the case may be, is achieved.
(5)Every recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall submit an audited networth certificate from the statutory auditor on a yearly basis by the thirtieth day of September of every year for the preceding financial year.
15.For the purposes of this Chapter:
(1)"banking company" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (c) of section 5 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949);
(2)"insurance company" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in sub-section (8) of section 2 of the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938);
(3)"person resident in India" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (v) of section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999);
(4)"person resident outside India" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause
(w) of section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999).
16.(1) Save as otherwise provided in these regulations, the shareholding or voting rights of any person in a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation shall not exceed the limits specified in this Chapter at any point of time.
(2)The shareholding as specified in this Chapter shall include any instrument owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, that provides for entitlement to equity or rights over equity at any future date.
17.(1) The public holding in a recognised stock exchange shall not be less than fifty one per cent of the paid up equity share capital of that recognised stock exchange.
(2)No person resident in India shall at any time, directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, acquire or hold more than five per cent of the paid up equity share capital in a recognised stock exchange:
Provided that,—
(a)a stock exchange;
(b)a depository;
(c)a banking company;
(d)an insurance company; and
(e)a public financial institution,
may acquire or hold, either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, upto fifteen per cent of the paid up equity share capital of a recognised stock exchange.
(3)No person resident outside India, directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, shall acquire or hold more than five per cent of the paid up equity share capital in a recognised stock exchange
Provided that,-
(a)a foreign stock exchange;
(b)a foreign depository;
(c)a foreign banking company;
(d)a foreign insurance company;
(e)a foreign commodity derivatives exchange; and
(f)a bilateral or multilateral financial institution approved by the Central Government,
may acquire or hold, either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, upto fifteen per cent of the paid up equity share capital of a recognised stock exchange.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this proviso, the persons referred to in clauses (a) to (f) shall mean persons recognised/ incorporated outside India.
(4)Subject to the limits as otherwise prescribed by the Central Government from time to time, the combined holding of all persons resident outside India in the paid up equity share capital of a recognised stock exchange shall not exceed, at any time, forty-nine per cent of its total paid up equity share capital
18. (1) The capital structure in a recognized clearing corporation shall be such that atleast fifty one percent of its paid up equity share capital shall always be held by one or more recognized stock exchange(s):
Provided that no recognised stock exchange shall, directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, acquire or hold more than fifteen per cent of the paid up equity share capital in more than one recognised clearing corporation.
(2)No person resident in India, except a recognised stock exchange as permitted in sub- regulation (1), shall at any time, directly or indirectly, either individually or together
with persons acting in concert, acquire or hold more than five per cent. of the paid up equity share capital in a recognised clearing corporation:
Provided that,—
(a)a depository;
(b)a banking company;
(c)an insurance company; and
(d)a public financial institution,
may acquire or hold, either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, upto fifteen per cent of the paid up equity share capital of a recognised clearing corporation.
(3)No person resident outside India shall, directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, acquire or hold more than five per cent of the paid up equity share capital in a recognised clearing corporation.
Provided that,-
(a)a foreign stock exchange;
(b)a foreign depository;
(c)a foreign banking company;
(d)a foreign insurance company;
(e)a foreign commodity derivatives exchange; and
(f)a bilateral or multilateral financial institution approved by the Central
Government,
may acquire or hold, either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, upto fifteen per cent of the paid up equity share capital of a recognized clearing corporation.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this proviso, the persons referred to in clauses (a) to
(f)shall mean persons recognised/ incorporated outside India.
19.(1) No person shall, directly or indirectly, acquire or hold any equity shares or voting rights of a recognised stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation unless he is a fit and proper person:
Provided that the onus shall be on the recognised stock exchange/ recognised clearing corporation to ensure that all its shareholders are fit and proper persons:
Provided further that such a requirement to ensure that all its shareholders are fit and proper persons shall not be applicable to a listed recognized stock exchange for shareholding of a person who directly or indirectly, acquires or holds less than two percent equity shares or voting rights of such listed recognized stock exchange.
(2)Any person who acquires equity shares or voting rights, in a recognised stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation, directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, that entitles the person(s) so acquiring to exercise any voting rights in the range of two percent to five per cent, shall seek approval of the Board within fifteen days of such acquisition.
(3)A person eligible to acquire or hold more than five per cent of the paid up equity share capital under sub-regulation (2) and (3) of regulation 17 and sub-regulation (2) and (3) of regulation 18 may acquire or hold more than five per cent of the paid up equity share capital of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation only if he has obtained prior approval of the Board.
(4)The application for seeking approval in terms of sub-regulation (2) or sub-regulation
(3)of this regulation shall be made to the Board in the manner specified at PART –F of Schedule – II of these regulations through the concerned stock exchange / clearing corporation.
(5)The stock exchange / clearing corporation shall verify the declarations/ undertakings given by the shareholders under sub-regulation (4) and forward the application along with its recommendation for approval to the Board.
(6)If approval under sub-regulation (2) is not granted by the Board to any person, such person shall forthwith divest his entire shareholding in the recognised stock exchange / recognised clearing corporation.
19A.The recognised stock exchange / recognised clearing corporation shall put in place a monitoring mechanism as specified in Part G of Schedule – II of these regulations to ensure compliance with the shareholding conditions specified in these regulations at all times.
20.(1) The recognised stock exchange/ recognised clearing corporation shall ensure that all its directors and key management personnel are fit and proper persons at all times.
(2)For the purposes of these regulations, a person shall be deemed to be a fit and proper person if—
(a)such person has a general reputation and record of fairness and integrity, including but not limited to—
(i)financial integrity;
(ii)good reputation and character; and
(iii)honesty;
(b)such person has not incurred any of the following disqualifications—
(i)the person or any of its whole time directors or managing partners, has been convicted by a court for any offence involving moral turpitude or any economic offence or any offence against the securities laws;
(ii)an order for winding up has been passed against the person;
(iii)the person, or any of its whole time directors or managing partners, has been declared insolvent and has not been discharged;
(iv)an order, restraining, prohibiting or debarring the person or any of its whole time directors or managing partners, from dealing in securities or from accessing the securities market, has been passed by the Board or any other regulatory authority and a period of three years from the date of the expiry of the period specified in the order has not elapsed;
(v)any other order against the person, or any of its whole time directors or managing partners, which has a bearing on the securities market, has been passed by the Board or any other regulatory authority, and a period of three years from the date of the order has not elapsed;
(vi)the Board has initiated recovery proceedings under the SEBI Act, 1992 and are pending;
(vii)the person has been found to be of unsound mind by a court of competent jurisdiction and the finding is in force;
(viii)the person is financially not sound or has been categorized as a willful defaulter; and
(ix)any other disqualification as specified by the Board.
21. (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of the Act, rules and these regulations, the recognised stock exchange(s) and the recognised clearing corporation(s) shall disclose to the Board, in the format specified by the Board, their shareholding pattern on a quarterly basis within fifteen days from the end of each quarter, including therein the following: —
(a)the names of the ten largest shareholders along with the number and percentage of shares held by them;
(b)the names of the shareholders falling under regulations 17 and 18 who had acquired shares in that quarter.
23.(1) The governing board of every recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall include:
(a)shareholder directors;
(b)public interest directors; and,
(c)managing director.
(2)Subject to the prior approval of the Board, the chairperson shall be elected by the governing board from amongst the public interest directors.
(3)The number of public interest directors shall not be less than the number of shareholder directors on the governing board of a recognised stock exchange and recognized Clearing Corporation.
(4)The managing director shall be included in the category of shareholder directors.
(5)Any employee of a recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation may be appointed on the governing board in addition to the managing director and such director shall be deemed to be a shareholder director.
(6)No trading member or clearing member or their associates and agents, irrespective of the stock exchange / clearing corporation of which they are members, shall be on the governing board of any recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation.
(7)For the purposes of sub-regulation (6) above, a person who is a director in an entity, that itself is a trading member or clearing member or has associate(s) as trading member(s) or clearing member(s) shall be deemed to be a clearing member or trading member:
Provided a person shall not be deemed to be clearing member and / or trading member or their associate for the purpose of sub-regulation (6), if he/she is on the board of a public financial institution or bank which is in public sector, or which either has no identifiable ultimate promoter, or the ultimate promoter is in public
sector or has well diversified shareholding , and such Public Financial Institution or Bank or its associate is a clearing member and / or trading member:
Provided further that the independent directors of the associates of Public Financial Institution or Bank in public sector, who are clearing member and/or trading member and where the majority shareholding is that of such public Financial institution or bank in the public sector, shall not be deemed to be a clearing member and / or trading member for the purpose of sub-regulation (6).
(8)The appointment of director shall be subject to the fulfillment of other requirements and satisfaction of the Board.
(9)A recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation, shall monitor and ensure the compliance of sub-regulation (6) on continuous basis, to ensure that directors appointed, on their governing board, do not get associated with trading member or clearing member after approval of appointment.
(10)The number of public interest directors shall not be less than the number of shareholder directors to constitute the quorum for the meeting of the governing board.
(11)The voting on a resolution in the meeting of the governing board shall be valid only when the number of public interest directors that have cast their vote on such resolution is equal to more than the number of shareholder directors who have cast their vote on such resolution.
(12)The casting vote in the meetings of the governing board of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation shall be with the chairperson of the governing board.
24. (1) The appointment and re-appointment of all shareholder directors on the governing board of every recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall be with the prior approval of the Board.
(2)The public interest directors on the governing board of the recognised stock exchange(s) and the recognised clearing corporation(s) shall be nominated by the Board.
(3)Public interest directors shall be nominated for a term of three years, extendable by another term of three years, subject to performance review in the manner as may be specified by the Board:
Provided that post the expiry of term(s) at the recognized stock exchange or the recognized clearing corporation, a public interest director may be nominated for a further term of three years in other recognized clearing corporation or recognized stock exchange, or a depository, only after a cooling-off period of one year:
Provided further that a person may be nominated as a public interest director for a maximum of three terms across recognized stock exchanges / recognized clearing corporations / depositories, subject to a maximum age limit of seventy five years.
(4)A public interest directors on the board of a recognized stock exchange or a recognized clearing corporation shall not act simultaneously as director on the board of its subsidiary or on the board of any other recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation or depository or on the board of subsidiary of such other recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation or depository.
(5)A public interest director on the board of a recognized stock exchange or a recognized clearing corporation shall keep its governing board apprised of any conflict of interest, which may arise as a result of the public interest director providing services, either directly or indirectly, to any company listed or traded on that recognized stock exchange, to any trading member or clearing member or their associates and agents
(6)No public interest director shall become a shareholder director unless there is a cooling-off period of three years after ceasing to be a public interest director.
(7)No public interest director on the board of a recognized stock exchange or a recognized clearing corporation, shall become a director on the board of subsidiary of that recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation, as the case may be, unless there is a cooling-off period of three years after ceasing to be a public interest director.
(8)A public interest director on the board of a recognized stock exchange or a recognized clearing corporation shall not act simultaneously as a member on more than five committees of that recognized stock exchange or a recognized clearing corporation.
(9)Public interest directors shall be remunerated only by way of sitting fees as admissible to independent directors in the Companies Act, 2013.
(10)If any issue arises as to whether an assignment or position of a public interest director is in conflict with his role, the Board's decision shall be final.
(11)The application for appointment of Directors shall be made in the manner as specified under PART –H of Schedule – II of these regulations.
25.(1) The appointment, renewal of appointment and termination of service of the managing director of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation shall be subject to the prior approval of the Board.
(2)Every recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall, subject to the guidelines issued by the Board from time to time, determine the qualification, manner of appointment, terms and conditions of appointment and other procedural formalities associated with the selection/ appointment of the managing director.
(3) The appointment of the managing director shall be for a term not exceeding five years:
Provided that post the completion of the first term, the recognized stock exchange or the recognized clearing corporation shall conduct the appointment process for appointment of the Managing Director afresh:
Provided further that a person may be appointed as the Managing Director by the recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation for a maximum of two terms not exceeding five years each, subject to a maximum age limit of sixty five years.
(4)The Managing director of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation shall not—
(a)be a shareholder or an associate of a shareholder of a recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation or shareholder of an associate of a recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation, as the case may be;
(b)be a trading member or a clearing member or his associate and agent or shareholder of a trading member or clearing member or shareholder of an associate and agent of a trading member or a clearing member; or
(c)hold any position concurrently in the subsidiary of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation or in any other entity associated with a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation:
Provided that the Managing Director of a recognised stock exchange may be appointed on the governing board, but not as managing director, of the subsidiary of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation.
(5)The Managing Director shall be liable for removal or termination of services by the governing board of the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation with the prior approval of the Board for failure to give effect to the directions, guidelines and other orders issued by the Board or the rules, the articles of association, bye-laws and regulations of the recognised stock exchange or the recognised clearing corporation.
(6)The Board may suo motu remove or terminate the appointment of the managing director if deemed fit in the interest of securities market:
Provided that no managing director shall be removed unless he has been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(7)The conditions specified under this regulation for appointment of directors shall be applicable to a person holding position as managing director in a stock exchange or a clearing corporation on the date of commencement of these regulations.
26.(1) Every director of a recognised stock exchange and a recognised clearing corporation shall abide by the Code of Conduct specified under Part- A of Schedule- II of these regulations.
(2)Every director and key management personnel of a recognised stock exchange and a recognised clearing corporation shall abide by the Code of Ethics specified under Part- B of Schedule- II of these regulations.
(3)Every director and key management personnel of a recognised stock exchange and a recognised clearing corporation shall be a fit and proper person as described in regulation 20.
(4)The Board may, for any failure by the directors to abide by these regulations or the Code of Conduct or Code of Ethics or in case of any conflict of interest, either upon a reference from the recognised stock exchange or the recognised clearing corporation or suo motu, take appropriate action including removal or termination of the appointment of any director, after providing him a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
27.(1) A recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation shall constitute a Nomination and Remuneration Committee comprising a majority of public interest directors and chaired by a public interest director.
(2)The Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall determine the compensation of key management personnel in terms of a compensation policy.
(3)The compensation policy shall be in accordance with the norms for compensation policy specified under PART – I of Schedule – II of these regulations.
(4)The compensation payable to the managing director shall be as approved by the Board and the terms and conditions of the compensation of the managing director shall not be changed without prior approval of the Board.
(5)The compensation given to the key management personnel shall be disclosed in the report of the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation under section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013.
(6)The report under sub-regulation (5) shall comprise of ratio of compensation paid to each key management personnel, vis-a-vis. median of compensation paid to all employees of the recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation.
(7)The tenure of a key management personnel, other than a director, shall be for a fixed period, as may be decided by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
Explanation: For the purpose of sub-regulation (7), the tenure refers to the period of posting as key management personnel in a regulatory department, which shall be for a fixed period
28.The recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall segregate its regulatory departments from other departments in the manner specified in Part - C of Schedule - II of these regulations.
29.(1) Every recognised stock exchange / recognized clearing corporation shall constitute the committees as per sub-regulation (2) and sub-regulation (3).
(2)Functional committee, comprising of:
(a)2[Member and Core Settlement Guarantee Fund committee;]
(b)3[*] grievance redressal committee; and
(c)Nomination and remuneration committee.
(3)Oversight committees, comprising of:
(a)Standing committee on technology;
(b)Advisory committee;
(c)Regulatory oversight committee; and
(d)Risk management committee.
30.(1) Every recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be responsible for monitoring the compliance of the Act, the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, rules, regulations, or directions issued thereunder and for the redressal of investors' grievances.
(2)The compliance officer shall immediately and independently, report to the Board any non- compliance of any provision stated in sub-regulation (1) observed by him.
31.(1) The contribution to the Fund as specified in regulation 37 shall be made by the recognised stock exchange, the recognised clearing corporation and the clearing members, in the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time.
(2)In case of shortfall in the Fund, the recognised clearing corporation and the recognised stock exchange shall replenish the Fund to the threshold level as may be specified by the Board from time to time.
2 Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “(a) Member selection committee;”
3Omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019. Prior to its omission, it read as “Investor”.
32.Penalties levied by recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall be credited to its Investor Protection Fund or the Fund as specified in regulation 37, as the case may be.
33.(1) The disclosure requirements and corporate governance norms as specified for listed companies shall mutatis mutandis apply to a recognised stock exchange and a recognised clearing corporation.
(2)The governing board of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation shall confirm compliance of sub-regulation (1) in writing on half yearly basis.
(3)Recognised stock exchange and a recognised clearing corporation shall disclose resources committed towards strengthening regulatory functions and towards ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements applicable to the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation, as the case may be, backed by an activity based accounting in the report under section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013.
34.Every recognised stock exchange shall, with effect from the date specified by the Board in this behalf, use the services of recognised clearing corporation(s) for clearing and settlement of its trades.
35.(1) Subject to provisions of sub-regulation (2), a recognised stock exchange shall avail the service of a recognised clearing corporation pursuant to an agreement in writing between them stipulating their rights and obligations, the conditions for admission of securities for clearing and settlement, risk management measures, charges for clearing and settlement and other incidental and consequential matters.
4[Provided that in case a recognised stock exchange enters into an arrangement with more than one recognised clearing corporation, it shall enter into a multipartite agreement in writing with such recognised clearing corporations to ensure interoperability among the clearing corporations.]
(2)The recognised stock exchange shall extend its arbitration mechanism for settlement of disputes or claims arising out of clearing and settlement of trades executed on such stock exchange.
36.(1) A recognised clearing corporation shall seek approval of the Board before extending its services to any segment of a recognised stock exchange and before admitting any securities for clearing and settlement.
(2)A recognized stock exchange shall not introduce any new segment without the prior approval of the Board.
37.(1) Every recognised clearing corporation shall establish and maintain a Fund by whatever name called, for each segment, to guarantee the settlement of trades executed in respective segment of a recognised stock exchange:
5[***]
(2)In the event of a clearing member failing to honour his settlement obligations, the Fund shall be utilized to complete the settlement.
(3)The corpus of the Fund shall be adequate to meet the settlement obligations arising on account of failure of clearing member(s).
(4)The sufficiency of the corpus of the Fund shall be tested by way of periodic stress tests, in the manner specified by the Board.
(5)The utilization of the Fund shall be in accordance with the norms specified by the Board.
38.(1)The utilization of profits and investments by recognised clearing corporations shall be in accordance with the norms specified by the Board.
4Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019.
5Omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019. Prior to its omission, the proviso read as:
“Provided that in case a recognised stock exchange enters into an arrangement with more than one recognised clearing corporation, it shall enter into a multipartite agreement in writing with such recognised clearing corporations to ensure interoperability among the clearing corporations.”
(2)The recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation shall not carry on any activity whether involving deployment of funds or otherwise without prior approval of the Board:
Provided that prior approval of the Board shall not be required in case of treasury investments if such investments are as per the investment policy approved by the governing board of recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation;
Provided further, that the recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation may engage in activities whether involving deployment of funds or
otherwise that are unrelated or not incidental to its activity as a stock exchange or clearing corporation, as the case may be, 6[*] through a separate legal entity and subject to approval of the Board.
39.(1) The recognised clearing corporation shall lay down a policy framework for ensuring that there is no discrimination while rendering clearing and settlement services in settlement of trades executed on shareholder stock exchange(s) and executed on non-shareholder stock exchange(s).
(2)The framework under sub-regulation (1) shall be made available on the website of the clearing corporation and shall provide the basis on which access to clearing and settlement services of the clearing corporation has been provided to a shareholder stock exchange(s) along-with the manner in which the said requirements should be complied by a non-shareholder stock exchange(s) to obtain access to clearing and settlement services.
(3)The recognised clearing corporation and recognised stock exchange shall ensure equal, unrestricted, transparent and fair access to all persons without any bias towards its associates and related entities.
(4)If any issue arises in rendering non-discriminatory access to services of a recognized clearing corporation, the Board's decision shall be final.
40.(1) Every recognised stock exchange shall maintain and preserve the books of account and documents as per rule 14 of the rules.
(2)Subject to the provisions of any other law for the time being in force, every recognised clearing corporation shall maintain and preserve the following books of account and documents for a minimum period of eight years, namely:-
(a)Minute books of the meetings of:
(i)governing board;
(ii)any committees of the governing board;
(b)Record of clearing members showing their full names, addresses and details of bank and depository accounts for settlement purposes;
6Omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019. Prior to its omission, it read as “except”.
(c)Transaction records;
(d)Record of security deposits;
(e)Margin deposits book;
(f)Client margin collection details;
(g)Ledgers;
(h)Journals;
(i)Cash book;
(j)Bank account statement;
41.(1) Every recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall furnish to the Board its annual financial statements and returns as per rule 17 and 17A of the rules.
(2)The records as per sub-regulation (1) with respect to the preceding financial year shall be furnished to the Board by the thirtieth of September of every year.
42.(1) A recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall, with the prior approval of the Board, make bye-laws for the regulation of contracts and clearing and settlement, as the case may be, as per section 9 of the Act and these regulations.
(2)No memorandum of association, articles of association or any other constitution document, in so far as they relate to matters specified in section 3 of the Act or under these regulations and bye- laws of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation, shall be amended except with prior approval of the Board.
(3)The Bye-laws of the clearing corporation and procedure for submitting amendments to Articles/Rules/Bye-laws [*]7, etc., of a recognised stock exchange/ recognized clearing corporation for approval of the Board shall be made in the manner as specified under PART – E of Schedule – II of these regulations.
43.(1) The payment and settlement in respect of a transaction in a recognized stock exchange and recognized clearing corporation shall be determined in accordance with the netting or gross procedure as specified in the bye-laws of such recognized stock exchange and recognized clearing corporation, with the prior approval of the Board
(2)Payment and settlement in respect of a transaction between parties referred to in sub- regulation (1), effected under the bye-laws of a recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation, shall be final, irrevocable and binding on such parties.
7Omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019. Prior to its omission, it read as “/Regulations”
(3)When a settlement has become final and irrevocable, the right of the recognized stock exchange or the recognized clearing corporation, as the case may be, to appropriate any collaterals or deposits or margins contributed by the trading member, clearing member or client towards its settlement or other obligations in accordance with the bye-laws of the recognised stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation shall take priority over any other liability of or claim against the said trading member, clearing member or client, as the case may be.
Explanation. - For removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the settlement, whether gross or net, referred to in this regulation is final and irrevocable as soon as the money, securities or other transactions payable as a result of such settlement is determined, whether or not such money, securities or other transactions is actually paid.
43A. Every recognized Clearing Corporation providing clearing and settlement services for commodity derivatives shall ensure guarantee for settlement of trades including good delivery.
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, “good delivery” shall mean the delivery of goods that is in proper form to transfer title and is of the quality and quantity as per contract specifications of the concerned exchange.]
45.(1) Subject to the provisions of the applicable laws in force, a recognised stock exchange may apply for listing of its securities on any recognised stock exchange, other than itself and its associated stock exchange, if,—
(a)it is compliant with the provisions of these regulations particularly those relating to ownership and governance;
8Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.r.e.f. 03-10-2018.
(b)it has completed three years of continuous trading operations immediately preceding the date of application of listing; and
(c)it has obtained approval of the Board:
Provided the Board may specify such conditions as it may deem fit in the interest of the securities market including those in relation to transfer of shares held by any person.
(2)A recognised stock exchange shall not list any securities of its associates.
47. The Board may from time to time call for any information, documents or records from the recognised stock exchange or the recognised clearing corporation, or their governing board or any shareholder thereof.
48. (1) The Board may at any time undertake inspection, conduct inquiries and audit of any recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation, any associate of such exchange or clearing corporation, any shareholder of such stock exchange or clearing corporation or any associate and agent of such shareholder.
(2)Where an inspection under sub-regulation (1) is undertaken by the Board, such recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation or shareholder or associate and every manager, director, managing director, chairperson or officer and other employee of such recognised stock exchange, recognised clearing corporation, shareholder or associate shall cooperate with the Board.
49. Without prejudice to the exercise of its powers under the provisions of the Act or the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and rules and regulations made thereunder, the Board may, either suo motu or on receipt of any information or during pendency of any inspection, inquiry or investigation or on completion thereof, in the
interest of public or trade or investors or the securities market, issue such directions as it deems fit, including but not limited to any or all of the following:—
(a)directing a person holding equity shares or rights over equity shares in a recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation in contravention of these regulations to divest his holding, in such manner as may be provided in the direction;
(b)directing transfer of any proceeds or securities to the Investor Protection Fund of a recognised stock exchange or Settlement Guarantee Fund of a recognised clearing corporation;
49A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis.
50.In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the provisions of these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue directions through guidance notes or circulars.
9Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17-04-2020.
51.For the purposes of implementation of these regulations and matters incidental thereto, the Board may specify norms, procedures, processes, manners or guidelines as specified in these regulations, by way of circulars to recognised stock exchange(s) and recognised clearing corporation(s).
52.(1) On and from the commencement of these regulations, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2012 and the following circulars, shall stand rescinded:
(a)Circular No. CIR/MRD/DSA/33/2012, dated December 13, 2012 - Procedural norms on Recognitions, Ownership and Governance for Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations;
(b)Circular No. SEBI/HO/MRD/DSA/CIR/P/2016/30 dated January 22, 2016 - Amendment to SEBI Circular CIR/MRD/DSA/33/2012 dated December 13, 2012 pursuant to amendment in Regulation 2(1)(b) of SECC Regulations, 2012.
1.(1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018.
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms used in these regulations shall bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions shall be construed accordingly,-
(a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);
1
(b)“applicant” means any person or persons who, acting alone or in combination with another person proposes to establish a depository under these regulations and holds fifteen percent shareholding of the depository;
(c)"associate" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under clause (b) of sub- regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2018 or any amendments thereof;
(d)"Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);
(e)“change in control” –
(i)in case of a body corporate –
(A)if its shares are listed on any recognised stock exchange, shall be construed with reference to the definition of control in terms of regulations framed under clause
(h) of sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Act;
(B)in any other case, shall be construed as change in the controlling interest in the body corporate;
Explanation: For the purpose of para (B) of this sub-clause, the expression “controlling interest” means an interest, whether direct or indirect, to the extent of at least fifty-one percent of voting rights in the body corporate;
(ii)in a case other than that of a body corporate, shall be construed as any change in its legal formation or ownership.
(f)"control" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under clause (e) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 or any amendments thereof;
(g)“Depositories Act” means the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996);
(h)“form” means any of the forms specified in the First Schedule;
(i)"governing board” means the board of directors of a depository;
(j)“inspecting officer” means any person authorised by the Board under regulation 84;
(k)"key management personnel" would include a person serving as head of any department, or in such senior executive position that stands higher in hierarchy to the head(s) of the department(s) in the depository, or any person who directly reports to chief executive officer or to the director of the governing board of the depository, or any person upto two levels below the chief executive officer or managing director, or any other person as may be identified by its Nomination and Remuneration Committee
(l)"persons acting in concert" in the context of acquisition or holding of shares or voting rights or control shall mutatis mutandis have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (q) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 or any amendments thereof;
2
(m)"public interest director" means an independent director representing the interests of investors in securities market and who is not having any association, directly or indirectly, which in the opinion of the Board, is in conflict with his role;
(n)"regulatory department" means a department of a depository which is entrusted with regulatory powers and duties and includes such department as may be specified by the Board;"
3.(1) No person shall establish a Depository unless he has obtained registration from the Board in accordance with the Act, the Depositories Act, 1996 and these regulations.
(2)An application for the grant of a certificate of registration as a depository shall be made to the Board by an applicant in Form A of the First Schedule, shall be accompanied by the fee specified in Part A of the Second Schedule and be paid in the manner specified in Part B thereof.
(3)The application shall be accompanied by draft bye-laws of the depository that is proposed to be set-up.
4.An application in Form A of the First Schedule which is not complete in all respects and does not conform to the instructions specified therein shall be rejected:
Provided that before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given in writing an opportunity to remove, within thirty days of the date of communication in this regard, the objections indicated by the Board:
3
Provided further that the Board may, on being satisfied that it is necessary to extend the period specified in the first proviso, extend such period by such further time as it thinks necessary in order to enable the applicant to remove the objections indicated by the Board.
5.(1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish such further information or clarification regarding matters relevant to the activity of the depository for the purpose of consideration of the application.
(2) The applicant or his authorised representative shall, if so required, appear before the Board for personal representation, in connection with the grant of certificate of registration.
6.(1) The Board shall not consider an application under regulation 3, unless the applicant belongs to the category of shareholders eligible to hold upto 15% share capital of the depository in terms of sub-regulation (1) and (2) of regulation 21.
(2)The Board shall not consider an application under regulation 3, unless the applicant is a fit and proper person as described in sub-regulation 2 of regulation 23.
7.After considering the application under regulation 3, with reference to the qualifications specified in regulation 6, if the Board is satisfied that the company established by the applicant is eligible to act as depository, it may grant a certificate of registration in Form B of the First Schedule to the depository subject to the following, namely :—
(a)
the depository shall pay the registration fee specified in Part A of the Second Schedule in
 
the manner specified in Part B thereof, within fifteen days of receipt of intimation from
 
the Board;
(b)
the depository shall comply with the provisions of the Act, the Depositories Act, the bye-
 
laws, agreements and these regulations ;
(c)
the depository shall not carry on any activity whether involving deployment of funds or
 
otherwise without prior approval of the Board:
 
Provided that prior approval of the Board shall not be required in case of treasury
 
investments if such investments are as per the investment policy approved by the
 
governing board of depository.
 
Provided further that a depository may carry out such activity not incidental to its
 
activities as a depository, whether involving deployment of funds or otherwise, as may be
 
assigned to the depository by the Central Government or by a regulator in the financial
 
4
 
sector, through the establishment of Strategic Business Unit(s) specific to each activity with the prior approval of the Board and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by the Board, including transfer of such activity to a separate company within such time as may be specified by the Board having regard to the matters which are relevant to the efficient and orderly function of the Depository as mentioned in regulation 14.
Explanation: For the purposes of this clause, a Strategic Business Unit shall be an organizational unit of a company with its own mission, objectives and business strategy that is given the responsibility to serve the particular demands of one business area with appropriate technological, financial and other segregations.
(d)the shareholding of the applicant in the depository shall be locked-in for a period of five years from the date of grant of registration by the Board.
(e)the depository complies with the shareholding and governance structure requirements specified in these regulations;
(f)if any information previously submitted by the depository or the applicant to the Board is found to be false or misleading in any material particular, or if there is any change in such information, the depository shall forthwith inform the Board in writing;
(g)the depository shall redress the grievances of the participants and the beneficial owners within thirty days of the date of receipt of any complaint from a participant or a beneficial owner and keep the Board informed about the number and the nature of redressals;
(h)the depository shall make an application for commencement of business under regulation 11 within one year from the date of grant of certificate of registration under this regulation; and
(i)the depository shall amend its bye-laws from time to time as may be directed by the Board;
(j)any other condition as the Board may deem fit in the interest of securities market.
8.A depository who has been granted a certificate of registration under regulation 7, shall pay annual fee specified in Part A of the Second Schedule in the manner specified in Part B thereof.
9.A depository shall pay to the Board, a percentage of the annual custody charges collected by it from the issuers as specified in Part A of Second Schedule in the manner specified in Part B thereof.
5
10.(1) Where an application for the grant of certificate of registration under regulation 3 does not satisfy the requirements specified in regulation 7, the Board shall reject the application after giving the applicant an opportunity of being heard.
11.A depository which has been granted a certificate of registration under regulation 7, shall within one year from the date of issue of such certificate make an application to the Board for commencement of business in Form C of the First Schedule.
12.Any application in Form C of the First Schedule which is not complete in all respects and does not conform to instructions specified therein shall be rejected:
Provided that before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given in writing an opportunity to remove within thirty days of the date of communication in this regard, the objections indicated by the Board:
Provided further that the Board may, on being satisfied that it is necessary to extend the period specified in the first proviso, extend such period by such further time as it thinks necessary in order to enable the applicant to remove the objections indicated by the Board.
13.(1) The Board may require the depository to furnish such further information or clarification regarding matters relevant for the grant of certificate of commencement of business.
(2)The depository or its authorised representative, if so required, shall appear before the Board for personal representation in connection with the grant of certificate of commencement of business.
6
14.(1) The Board shall take into account for considering grant of certificate of commencement of business, all matters which are relevant to the efficient and orderly functioning of the depository and in particular, the following, namely, whether—
(a)
the depository has a net worth of not less than rupees one hundred crores;
(b)
the bye-laws of the depository have been approved by the Board;
(c)
the automatic data processing systems of the depository have been protected against
 
unauthorised access, alteration, destruction, disclosure or dissemination of records and
 
data;
(d)
the network through which continuous electronic means of communications are
 
established between the depository, participants, issuers and issuers’ agents is secure
 
against unauthorised entry or access;
(e)
the depository has established standard transmission and encryption formats for
 
electronic communications of data between the depository, participants, issuers and
 
issuers’ agents;
(f)
the physical or electronic access to the premises, facilities, automatic data processing
 
systems, data storage sites and facilities including back up sites and facilities and to the
 
electronic data communication network connecting the depository, participants, issuers
 
and issuers’ agents is controlled, monitored and recorded;
(g)
the depository has a detailed operations manual explaining all aspects of its functioning,
 
including the interface and method of transmission of information between the
 
depository, issuers, issuers’ agents, participants and beneficial owners;
(h)
the depository has established adequate procedures and facilities to ensure that its records
 
are protected against loss or destruction and arrangements have been made for
 
maintaining back up facilities at a location different from that of the depository;
(i)
the depository has made adequate arrangements including insurance for indemnifying the
 
beneficial owners for any loss that may be caused to such beneficial owners by the
 
wrongful act, negligence or default of the depository or its participants or of any
 
employee of the depository or participant; and
(j)
the grant of certificate of commencement of business is in the interest of investors in the
 
securities market.
(2)The Board shall, before granting a certificate of commencement of business under this Chapter make a physical verification of the infrastructure facilities and systems established by the depository.
15.(1) Every depository shall maintain networth as specified under regulation 14 (1) (a) at all times and submit an audited networth certificate from the statutory auditor on a yearly basis, by the thirtieth day of September of every year for the preceding financial year.
Explanation: For the purposes of this regulation, ‘networth of a depository’ means the aggregate value of paid up equity share capital and free reserves (excluding statutory funds, benefit funds and reserves created out of revaluation) reduced by the investments in businesses, whether related or unrelated, aggregate value of accumulated losses and deferred expenditure not written off, including miscellaneous expenses not written off.
(2)Every depository shall within one month of the date of the holding of its annual general meeting, furnish to the Board a copy of its audited balance-sheet and profit and loss account for the preceding financial year.
16.After considering the application under regulation 14 with reference to the matters specified in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 14 and making physical verification under sub-regulation
(2)of that regulation, if the Board is satisfied that the depository is eligible to commence business as a depository, shall grant a certificate of commencement of business in Form D of the First Schedule.
17.The depository holding a certificate of commencement of business shall, at all times, abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in the Part D of the Third Schedule.
18.(1) If the Board, after considering the matters specified in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 14 and making physical verification under sub-regulation (2) of that regulation, is of the opinion that the depository shall not be granted a certificate of commencement of business, it may either—
(a) direct the depository to conform to the matters specified in regulation 14; or
(b) reject the application after giving the applicant an opportunity of being heard.
19.For the purposes of this Chapter:
(1)"banking company" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (c) of section 5 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949);
(2)"insurance company" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in sub-section (8) of section 2 of the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938);
(3)"person resident in India" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (v) of section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999);
(4)"person resident outside India" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause
(w) of section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999).
20.(1) Save as otherwise provided in these regulations, the shareholding or voting rights of any person in a depository shall not exceed the limits specified in these regulations at any point of time.
(2)For determining the shareholding of any person in a depository as specified in these regulations, any instrument held, owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by a person that entitles him the voting rights or provides for entitlement to voting rights or equity shares or any other rights over equity shares at any future date, shall also be included:
Provided that any equity or rights over equity, arising from such instruments in excess of limit of shareholding specified in this Chapter on the date of commencement of these regulations, shall be reduced to the specified limit within a period of five years or such other period as may be specified by the Board from time to time, from the date of such commencement.
21.(1) No person resident in India shall at any time, directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, acquire or hold more than five percent of the paid up equity share capital in a Depository:
Provided that,—
(i)a stock exchange;
(ii)a depository;
9
(iii)a banking company;
(iv)an insurance company; and
(v)a public financial institution,
may acquire or hold, either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, upto fifteen percent of the paid up equity share capital of a Depository.
(2)No person resident outside India, directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, shall acquire or hold more than five percent of the paid up equity share capital in a Depository:
Provided further that,-
(i)a foreign stock exchange;
(ii)a foreign depository;
(iii)a foreign banking company;
(iv)a foreign insurance company;
(v)a foreign commodity derivatives exchange; and
(vi)a bilateral or multilateral financial institution approved by the Central Government,
may acquire or hold, either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, upto fifteen percent of the paid up equity share capital of a Depository.
Explanation: For the purposes of proviso to sub-regulation (2), the persons referred to in clauses (i) to (vi) shall mean persons recognised/ incorporated outside India.
22.(1) No person shall, directly or indirectly, acquire or hold equity shares or voting rights of a depository unless he is a fit and proper person. The depository shall ensure that all its shareholders are fit and proper persons:
Provided that such a requirement to ensure that all its shareholders are fit and proper persons shall not be applicable to a listed depository for shareholding of a person who directly or indirectly, acquires or holds less than two percent equity shares or voting rights of such listed depository.
(2)Any person(s) who acquires equity shares or voting rights, in a depository, directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, that entitles the
10
person(s) so acquiring to exercise voting rights of two percent upto five percent, shall seek approval of the Board within fifteen days of such acquisition.
(3)Any person eligible to acquire or hold more than five percent of the paid up equity share capital under sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 21 may acquire or hold more than five percent of the paid up equity share capital of a depository only if the person has obtained prior approval of the Board.
(4)The application for seeking approval in terms of sub-regulation (2) or sub-regulation
(3)of this regulation shall be made to the Board in Form E of the First Schedule through the depository concerned.
(5)The depository shall verify the declarations/ undertakings given by the shareholders under sub-regulation (4) and forward the application, along with its recommendation for approval of the Board.
(6)If approval under sub-regulation (2) is not granted by the Board to any person, such person shall forthwith divest his entire shareholding in the depository.
(7)Any person holding two percent or more of the paid up equity share capital in a depository shall file a declaration within fifteen days from the end of every financial year to the depository that he complies with the fit and proper criteria.
Monitoring of shareholding limits
23.(1)The depository shall ensure that all its directors and key management personnel are fit and proper persons at all times.
(2)For the purpose of determining whether an applicant, depository, its shareholder, director, key management personnel or a participant, is a ‘fit and proper person’ under these regulations, the criteria specified under regulation 20 of Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2018, shall be applicable
(3)If any question arises on the decision of a depository as to whether a person is fit and proper, the Board’s decision on such question shall be final.
24.(1) The governing board of every depository shall include:
(a)shareholder directors;
(b)public interest directors; and,
(c)managing director.
(2)Subject to prior approval of the Board, the chairperson shall be elected by the governing board from amongst the public interest directors.
(3)The number of public interest directors shall not be less than the number of shareholder directors on the governing board of a Depository.
(4)The number of public interest directors shall not be less than the number of shareholder directors to constitute the quorum for the meeting of the governing board.
(5)The voting on a resolution in the meeting of the governing board shall be valid only when the number of public interest directors that have cast their vote on such resolution is equal to or more than the number of shareholder directors who have cast their vote on such resolution.
(6)The casting vote in the meetings of the governing board of the depository shall be with the chairperson of the governing board.
(7)The managing director shall be included in the category of shareholder directors.
(8)Any employee of a depository may be appointed on the governing board in addition to the managing director, and such director shall be deemed to be a shareholder director:
(9)No depository participant or their associates and agents, irrespective of the depository of which they are members, shall be on the governing board of a depository.
12
(10) A person who is
a director
in an entity, that
itself is
a depository participant or
has associate(s) as
depository
participant, he/she
will be
deemed to be a depository
participant:
 
 
 
 
Provided a person shall not be deemed to be Depository Participant or their associate for the purpose of sub-regulation 10, if he/she is on the board of a Public Financial Institution or Bank which is in public sector, or which has no identifiable ultimate promoter, or the ultimate promoter is in public sector or has well diversified shareholding, and such Public Financial Institution or Bank or its associate is a Depository Participant:
Provided further that the independent directors of associates of Public Financial Institution or Bank in public sector, who is a Depository Participant and where the majority shareholding is that of such Public Financial Institution or Bank in public sector, shall not be deemed to be Depository Participant for the purpose of sub-regulation 10.
(11)The appointment of director shall be subject to fulfillment of other requirements and satisfaction of the Board.
(12)Depository shall monitor and ensure the compliance of sub-regulation 9 on continuous basis, to ensure that directors appointed, on their governing board, do not get associated with Depository Participant after approval and appointment.
25.(1) The appointment and re-appointment of all shareholder directors on the governing board of every depository shall be with the prior approval of the Board.
(2)The public interest directors on the governing board of a depository shall be nominated by the Board.
(3)Public interest directors shall be nominated for a term of three years, extendable by another term of three years, subject to performance review in the manner as may be specified by the Board:
Provided that post the expiry of term(s) at a depository, a public interest director may be nominated for a term of three years in other depository or recognized stock exchange or a recognized clearing corporation, only after a cooling-off period of one year:
Provided further that a person shall be nominated as a public interest director for a maximum of three terms across a depository / a recognized stock exchange / a recognized clearing corporation, subject to a maximum age limit of seventy five years.
13
(4)A public interest director on the board of a depository shall not act simultaneously as director on the board of its subsidiary or on the board of any other depository or recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation or on the board of subsidiary of such other depository or recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation.
(5)A public interest director on the board of a depository shall not act simultaneously as member on more than five committees of that depository.
(6)A public interest director on the board of a depository shall keep its governing board apprised of any conflict of interest, which may arise as a result of the public interest director providing services, either directly or indirectly, to depository participants or their associates and agents.
(7)No public interest director shall become a shareholder director unless there is a cooling- off period of three years after ceasing to be a public interest director
(8)No public interest director on the governing board of a depository shall become a director on the board of subsidiary of that depository unless there is a cooling-off period of three years after ceasing to be a public interest director.
(9)Public interest directors shall be remunerated only by way of payment of sitting fees as admissible to independent directors in the Companies Act, 2013.
(10)If any issue arises as to whether an assignment or position of a public interest director is in conflict with his role, the Board’s decision shall be final.
(11)For the purpose of this regulation, the procedure for appointment of directors is prescribed under Part C of the Second Schedule.
26.(1) The appointment, renewal of appointment and termination of service of the managing director of a depository shall be subject to prior approval of the Board.
(2)Every depository shall, subject to the guidelines issued by the Board from time to time, determine the qualification, manner of appointment, terms and conditions of appointment and other procedural formalities relating to the selection/ appointment of the managing director.
(3)The appointment of the managing director shall be for a term not exceeding five years:
Provided that post the completion of first term as Managing Director, the depository shall conduct the appointment process afresh:
Provided further that a person may be appointed as Managing Director by the depository for a maximum of two terms not exceeding five years each subject to a maximum age limit of sixty five years.
(4)The managing director of a depository shall not—
(a)be a shareholder or an associate of a shareholder of a depository or shareholder of an associate of a depository;
14
(b)be a depository participant, or his associate and agent, or shareholder of a depository participant or shareholder of an associate and agent of a depository participant; or
(c)hold any position concurrently in the subsidiary of a depository or in any other entity associated with a depository:
Provided that the managing director of a depository may be appointed on the governing board, but not as managing director, of the subsidiary or associate of a depository.
(5)The managing director shall be liable for removal or termination of services by the governing board of the depository with the prior approval of the Board for failure to give effect to the directions, guidelines and other orders issued by the Board, or the rules, instructions, the articles of association and bye-laws of the depository.
(6)The Board may suo motu remove or terminate the appointment of the managing director if deemed fit in the interest of securities market:
Provided that no managing director shall be removed unless he has been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(7)The conditions specified under this regulation for appointment of managing director shall be applicable to a person holding position as managing director in a depository on the date of commencement of these regulations.
27.(1) Every director of a depository shall abide by the Code of Conduct specified under Part-B of Third Schedule of these regulations.
(2)Every director and key management personnel of a depository shall abide by the Code of Ethics specified under Part-C of Third Schedule of these regulations.
(3)Every director and key management personnel of a depository shall satisfy the fit and proper person criteria at all times as per sub-regulation (2) of regulation 23.
(4)The Board may, for any failure by the directors to abide by these regulations or the Code of Conduct or Code of Ethics or in case of any conflict of interest, either upon a reference from the depository or suo motu, take appropriate action including removal or termination of the appointment of any director, after providing him a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
28.(1) A depository shall constitute a Nomination and Remuneration Committee comprising a majority of public interest directors and chaired by a public interest director.
15
(2)The Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall determine the compensation of key management personnel in terms of a compensation policy.
(3)The compensation policy shall be determined by Nomination and Remuneration committee in accordance with the norms specified by the Board under Part D of Second Schedule.
(4)The compensation payable to the managing director shall be as approved by the Board and the terms and conditions of the compensation of the managing director shall not be changed without prior approval of the Board.
(5)The compensation given to the key management personnel shall be disclosed in the Report of the depository under section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013.
(6)The report under sub-regulation (5) shall comprise of ratio of compensation paid to each key management personnel, vis-a-viz. median of compensation paid to other employees of the depository.
(7)The tenure of a key management personnel, other than a director, in a department, shall be for a fixed period, as may be decided by the Nomination and Remuneration committee.
Explanation: For the purpose of sub-regulation (7), the tenure refers to the period of posting as key management personnel in a regulatory department, which shall be for a fixed period.
29.The depository shall segregate its regulatory departments from other departments in the manner specified in Fourth Schedule of these regulations.
30.(1) The depository shall constitute the committees as per sub-regulation (2) and sub- regulation (3).
(2)Functional committee, comprising of:
(a)Member 1[*] committee;
(b)2[*] grievance redressal committee; and
(c)Nomination and remuneration committee.
(3)Oversight committees, comprising of:
(a)Standing committee on technology;
(b)Advisory committee;
(c)Regulatory oversight committee; and
(d)Risk management committee.
1Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 04-06-2019. Prior to its omission, it read as “selection”.
2Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 04-06-2019. Prior to its omission, it read as “Investor”.
16
31.(1) The disclosure requirements and corporate governance norms as specified for listed companies shall mutatis mutandis apply to a depository.
(2)The governing board of a depository shall confirm compliance of sub-regulation (1) in writing on half yearly basis to the Board.
(3)Depository shall disclose resources committed towards strengthening regulatory functions and towards ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements applicable to the depository, backed by an activity based accounting in the report under section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013.
32.(1) An application for the grant of a certificate of registration as a participant shall be made to the Board in Form F of the First Schedule, through the depository in which the applicant proposes to act as a participant, shall be accompanied by the fee specified in Part A of the Second Schedule and be paid in the manner specified in Part B thereof.
(2) The depository shall forward to the Board the application in Form F of the First Schedule as early as possible, but not later than thirty days along with its recommendations and certifying that the participant complies with the eligibility criteria including adequate infrastructure as provided for in these regulations and the bye-laws of the depository.
33.An application in Form F of the First Schedule, which is not complete in all respects and does not conform to the instructions specified therein, shall be rejected:
Provided that before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given in writing an opportunity to remove within thirty days of the date of communication in this regard, the objections indicated by the Board:
17
Provided further that the Board may, on being satisfied that it is necessary to extend the period specified in the first proviso, extend such period by such further time as it thinks necessary in order to enable the applicant to remove the objections indicated by the Board.
34.(1) The Board may require the applicant, or the depository to which the applicant is to be admitted as a participant, to furnish such further information or clarification as may be considered necessary for the grant of a certificate of registration to the applicant.
(2) The applicant or his authorised representative shall, if so required, appear before the Board for personal representation in connection with the grant of a certificate of registration.
35.For the purpose of grant of certificate of registration, the Board shall take into account all matters which are relevant to or relating to the efficient and orderly functioning of a participant and in particular, whether the applicant complies with the following requirements, namely :—
(a) the applicant belongs to one of the following categories,—
(i) a public financial institution as defined in section 2(72) of the Companies Act, 2013;
(ii) a bank included for the time being in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934);
(iii) a foreign bank operating in India with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India;
(iv) a State Financial Corporation established under the provisions of section 3 of the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951 (63 of 1951);
(v) an institution engaged in providing financial services, promoted by any of the institutions mentioned in sub-clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv), jointly or severally;
(vi) a custodian of securities who has been granted a certificate of registration by the Board under sub-section (1A) of section 12 of the Act;
(vii) a clearing corporation or a clearing house of a stock exchange;
(viii) a stock broker who has been granted a certificate of registration by the Board under sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Act :
Provided that the stock broker shall have a minimum net worth of rupees fifty lakhs and the aggregate value of portfolio of securities of the beneficial owners held in dematerialised form in a depository through him, shall not exceed hundred times of the net worth of the stock broker:
18
Provided further that if the stock broker seeks to act as a participant in more than one depository, he shall comply with the criteria specified in the first proviso separately for each such depository:
Provided also that where the stock broker has a minimum net worth of rupees ten crore, the limits on the aggregate value of the portfolio of securities of the beneficial owners held in dematerialized form in a depository through him shall not be applicable;
(ix) a non-banking finance company, having a net worth of not less than rupees fifty lakhs: Provided that such company shall act as a participant only on behalf of itself and not on behalf of any other person:
Provided further that a non-banking finance company may act as a participant on behalf of any other person, if it has a net worth of rupees fifty crore in addition to the net worth specified by any other authority;
(x) a registrar to an issue or share transfer agent who has a minimum net worth of rupees ten crores and who has been granted a certificate of registration by the Board under sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Act;
(b) the applicant is eligible to be admitted as a participant of the depository through which it has made the application to the Board;
(c) the applicant has adequate infrastructure, systems, safeguards and trained staff to carry on activity as a participant;
(d) the applicant is a fit and proper person; and
36.(1) After considering the application under regulation 32, with reference to the matters specified in regulation 35, if the Board is satisfied that the applicant is eligible for grant of certificate of registration, grant a certificate in Form G of the First Schedule.
(2) The grant of certificate of registration in Form G of the First Schedule shall be subject to the following, namely:—
(a) the participant shall pay the registration fee specified in Part A of the Second Schedule in the manner specified in Part B thereof, within fifteen days of the receipt of intimation from the Board;
(b) the participant shall comply with the provisions of the Act, Depositories Act, the bye- laws, agreements and these regulations;
(c) the depository through which an application for certificate of registration has been forwarded holds a certificate of commencement of business under regulation 16;
(d)where the participant proposes change in control, it shall obtain prior approval of the Board for continuing to act as such after the change;
19
(e) if any information previously submitted by the participant to the Board is found to be false or misleading in any material particular, or if there is any change in such information, the participant shall forthwith inform the Board in writing ;
(f)the participant shall redress the grievances of beneficial owners within thirty days of the date of the receipt of the complaint and keep the depository informed about the number and the nature of redressals; and
(g) the participant shall pay annual fees specified in Part A of the Second Schedule in the manner specified in Part B thereof.
(3)The certificate of registration granted under sub-regulation (1) shall be valid unless it is suspended or cancelled by the Board.
(4)The participant who has already been granted certificate of registration by the Board, prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 shall be deemed to have been granted a certificate of registration, in terms of sub-regulation (1).
(5)The participant, to keep the registration in force, shall pay registration fee as specified in Part A of the Second Schedule for every five years from the sixth year of the date of grant of certificate of registration or of the date of grant of certificate of initial registration granted prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, as the case may be.
(6)The fee specified in sub-regulation (5) shall be paid three months prior to the expiry of the block for which the fee has been paid.
37.The participant holding a certificate of registration shall, at all times, abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in Part A of Third Schedule.
38.(1) A participant who has been granted a certificate of registration may act as a participant of another depository without obtaining separate certificate of registration subject to approval by such other depository.
(2)Such a participant who desires to act as a participant of another depository shall apply to such other depository for approval in the manner as specified by the Board.
(3)On receipt of an application under sub-regulation (2), the depository shall, on being satisfied with the compliance of the provisions of these regulations and other relevant eligibility requirements specified by the Board, grant approval to act as its participant subject
20
to payment of registration fees specified in Part A of Second Schedule in the manner specified in Part B thereof, by the participant within fifteen days of the receipt of intimation from the depository.
(4)The depository shall inform the Board about the approval granted under sub-regulation
(5)A participant who has been granted approval under sub-regulation (3) shall pay annual fees specified in Part A of Second Schedule in the manner specified in Part B thereof, separately for each depository.
(6)To keep the registration in force, a participant who has been granted approval under sub- regulation (3) shall pay registration fees specified in Part A of Second Schedule in the manner specified in Part B thereof, for every five years from the sixth year of the date of grant of approval by the depository.
39.(1) Where an application for the grant of certificate of registration under regulation 32 does not satisfy the requirements specified in regulation 35, the Board shall reject the application after giving the applicant an opportunity of being heard.
40.The depositories, participants, issuers, and issuers’ agents, in addition to the rights and obligations laid down in the Depositories Act and the bye-laws shall have the rights and obligations arising from the agreements entered into by them.
41.Every depository shall, in its bye-laws, state the specific securities which are eligible for being held in dematerialised form in the depository.
Security eligible for dematerialisation
42.The following securities shall be eligible for being held in dematerialised form in a depository :—
(a) shares, scrips, stocks, bonds, debentures, debenture stock , Indian Depository Receipts or other marketable securities of a like nature in or of any incorporated company or other body corporate;
(b) units of mutual funds, rights under collective investment schemes and venture capital funds, commercial paper, certificates of deposit, securitised debt, money market instruments, Government securities and unlisted securities shall also be similarly eligible for being held in dematerialised form in a depository;
(c) any other security as may be specified by the Board from time to time, by way of a notification in the Official Gazette and subject to such conditions as it may deem fit to impose.
43.(1) Either on the issuer or on the investor exercising an option to hold his securities with a depository in dematerialised form, the issuer shall enter into an agreement with the depository to enable the investor to dematerialise the securities:
Provided that no agreement shall be required to be entered into where the depository itself is an issuer of securities:
Provided further that no such agreement shall be required to be entered into where the State or the Central Government is the issuer of Government securities.
(2)Where the issuer has appointed a Registrar to the Issue or Share Transfer Agent, who has been granted certificate of registration by the Board under sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Act, the depository shall enter into a tripartite agreement with the issuer and the Registrar to the Issue or Share Transfer Agent, as the case may be, in respect of the securities to be declared by the depository as eligible to be held in dematerialised form.
44.Every depository shall have systems and procedures which will enable it to co-ordinate with the issuer or its agent, and the participants, to reconcile the records of ownership of securities with the issuer or its agent, as the case may be, and with participants, on a daily basis.
45.Every depository shall maintain continuous electronic means of communication with all its participants, issuers or issuers’ agents, as the case may be, clearing houses and clearing corporations of the stock exchanges and with other depositories.
Mechanism for investor protection
46.The depository shall satisfy the Board that it has a mechanism in place to ensure that the interests of the persons buying and selling securities held in the depository are adequately protected.
47.Every depository shall allow any participant to withdraw, or transfer its account, if the request for such withdrawal or transfer is in accordance with conditions stipulated therefor in the bye-laws of the depository.
48.Every depository shall have adequate mechanisms for the purposes of reviewing, monitoring and evaluating the depository’s controls systems, procedures and safeguards.
49.Every depository shall cause an inspection of its controls, systems, procedures and safeguards to be carried out annually and forward a copy of the report to the Board.
50.A depository shall have adequate Business Continuity Plan for data and electronic records to prevent, prepare for, and recover from any disaster.
51.Every depository shall devise and maintain a wind-down plan in accordance with guidelines specified by the Board.
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, 'wind-down plan' means a process or plan of action employed, for transfer of the beneficial owner accounts and other two operational powers of the depository to an alternative institution that would take over the operations of the depository in scenarios such as erosion of net-worth of the depository or its insolvency or its inability to provide critical depository operations or services.
52.Every depository shall take adequate measures including insurance to protect the interests of the beneficial owners against risks likely to be incurred on account of its activities as a depository.
23
53.Where records are kept electronically by the depository, it shall ensure that the integrity of the automatic data processing systems is maintained at all times and take all precautions necessary to ensure that the records are not lost, destroyed or tampered with and in the event of loss or destruction, ensure that sufficient back up of records is available at all times at a different place.
54.(1) Every depository shall maintain the following records and documents, namely :—
(a)records of securities dematerialised and rematerialised;
(b) the names of the transferor, transferee, and the dates of transfer of securities;
(c) a register and an index of beneficial owners;
(d) details of the holding of the securities of beneficial owners as at the end of each day;
(e) records of instructions received from and sent to participants, issuers, issuers’ agents and beneficial owners;
(f) records of approval, notice, entry and cancellation of pledge or hypothecation, as the case may be;
(g) details of participants;
(h) details of securities declared to be eligible for dematerialisation in the depository; and
(i) such other records as may be specified by the Board for carrying on the activities as a depository.
(2)Every depository shall intimate the Board the place where the records and documents are maintained.
55.Every depository shall extend all such co-operation to the beneficial owners, issuers, issuers’ agents, custodians of securities, other depositories and clearing organizations as is necessary for the effective, prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions and conduct of business.
56.In order to enable generation of a consolidated account statement for the use of a beneficial owner in respect of all demat assets held by him, the depository shall enter into necessary agreements for sharing of such information.
24
57.No depository shall assign or delegate to any other person its functions as a depository, without the prior approval of the Board.
58.Every participant shall enter into an agreement with a beneficial owner before acting as a participant on his behalf, in a manner specified by the depository in its bye-laws.
59.(1) Separate accounts shall be opened by every participant in the name of each of the beneficial owners and the securities of each beneficial owner shall be segregated, and shall not be mixed up with the securities of other beneficial owners or with the participant’s own securities.
(2)A participant shall register the transfer of securities to or from a beneficial owner’s account only on receipt of instructions from the beneficial owner and thereafter confirm the same to the beneficial owner in a manner as specified by the depository in its bye-laws.
(3)Every entry in the beneficial owner’s account shall be supported by electronic instructions or any other mode of instruction received from the beneficial owner in accordance with the agreement with the beneficial owner.
60.Every participant shall provide statements of account to the beneficial owner in such form and in such manner and at such time as provided in the agreement with the beneficial owner.
61.Every participant shall allow a beneficial owner to withdraw or transfer from his account in such manner as specified in the agreement with the beneficial owner.
62.Every participant shall maintain continuous electronic means of communication with each depository in which it is a participant.
63.Every participant shall have adequate mechanism for the purpose of reviewing, monitoring and evaluating the participant’s internal accounting controls and systems.
25
64.Every participant shall reconcile his records with every depository in which it is a participant on a daily basis.
65.Every participant shall submit periodic returns to the Board and to every depository in which it is a participant in the format specified by the Board or the bye-laws of the depository, as the case may be.
66. (1) Every participant shall maintain the following records and documents, namely :—
(a) records of all the transactions entered into with a depository and with a beneficial owner;
(b) details of securities dematerialised, rematerialised on behalf of beneficial owners with whom it has entered into an agreement;
(c)records of instructions received from beneficial owners and statements of account provided to beneficial owners; and
(d) records of approval, notice, entry and cancellation of pledge or hypothecation, as the case may be.
(2)Every participant shall make available for the inspection of the depository in which it is a participant all records referred to in sub-regulation (1).
(3)Every participant shall allow persons authorised by the depository in which it is a participant to enter its premises during normal office hours and inspect its records.
(4)Every participant shall intimate the Board the place where the records and documents are maintained.
67.Where records are kept electronically by the participant it shall ensure that the integrity of the data processing systems is maintained at all times and take all precautions necessary to ensure that the records are not lost, destroyed or tampered with and in the event of loss or destruction, ensure that sufficient back up of records is available at all times at a different place.
Records to be maintained depository-wise
68.If a participant enters into an agreement with more than one depository, it shall maintain the records specified in regulation 66 separately in respect of each depository.
69.No participant shall assign or delegate its functions as participant to any other person, without the prior approval of the depository.
70.Every issuer whose securities have been declared as eligible to be held in dematerialised form in a depository shall enter into an agreement with the depository in accordance with the provisions of regulation 43:
Provided that no agreement shall be required to be entered into in case,— (i) the depository is the issuer of securities; or
(ii) the State or the Central Government is the issuer of Government securities.
71.All matters relating to transfer of securities, maintenance of records of holders of securities, handling of physical securities and establishing connectivity with the depositories shall be handled and maintained at a single point i.e. either in-house by the issuer or by a Share Transfer Agent registered with the Board.
72.Every issuer or its agent or any person who is registered as an intermediary under this regulation, shall redress the grievances of beneficial owners within thirty days of the date of receipt of the complaint and keep the depository informed about the number and nature of grievances redressed by it and the number of grievances pending before it.
73.(1) Every depository shall establish and maintain an Investor Protection Fund for the protection of interest of beneficial owners:
Provided that this Fund shall not be used by the depository for the purpose of indemnifying the beneficial owner under section 16 of the Depositories Act, 1996.
(2)Every depository shall credit five percent or such percentage as may be specified by the Board, of its profits from depository operations every year to the Investor Protection Fund.
(3)The contribution to and utilization of the Investor Protection Fund shall be in accordance with the norms specified by the Board.
27
74.(1) Any beneficial owner, who has entered into an agreement with a participant, shall inform the participant of the details of the certificate of security which is to be dematerialised, and shall surrender such certificate to the participant :
Provided that where a beneficial owner has appointed a custodian of securities, then he may surrender the certificates of security to the participant through his custodian of securities.
(2)The participant shall, on receipt of information under sub-regulation (1), forward such details of the certificate of security to the depository and shall confirm to the depository that an agreement has been entered into between the participant and the beneficial owner.
(3)The participant shall maintain records indicating the names of beneficial owners of the securities surrendered, the number of securities and other details of the certificate of security received.
(4)The participant shall, within seven days of the receipt of certificate of security referred to in sub-regulation (1) furnish to the issuer details specified in sub-regulation (2) along with the certificate of security.
(5)Within fifteen days of receipt of the certificate of security from the participant the issuer shall confirm to the depository that securities comprised in the said certificate have been listed on the stock exchange or exchanges where the earlier issued securities are listed and shall also after due verification immediately mutilate and cancel the certificate of security and substitute in its record the name of the depository as the registered owner and shall send a certificate to this effect to the depository and to every stock exchange where the security is listed:
Provided that in case of unlisted companies the condition of listing on all the stock exchanges where earlier issued shares are listed, shall not be applicable.
(6)Immediately upon receipt of information from the issuer under sub-regulation (5), the depository shall enter in its records the name of the person who has surrendered the certificate of security as the beneficial owner, as well as the name of the participant from whom it has received intimation under sub-regulation (2), and shall send an intimation of the same to the participant.
(7)The issuer shall maintain a record of certificates of securities which have been dematerialised.
75.The issuer or its agent shall reconcile the records of dematerialised securities with all the securities issued by the issuer, on a daily basis:
Provided that where the State or the Central Government is the issuer of Government securities, the depository shall, on a daily basis, reconcile the records of the dematerialised securities.
28
76.(1) Every issuer shall submit audit report on a quarterly basis, starting from September 30, 2003, to the concerned stock exchanges audited by a qualified Chartered Accountant or a practicing Company Secretary, for the purposes of reconciliation of the total issued capital, listed capital and capital held by depositories in dematerialized form, the details of changes in share capital during the quarter and the in-principle approval obtained by the issuer from all the stock exchanges where it is listed in respect of such further issued capital.
(2)The audit report under sub-regulation (1) shall also give the updated status of the register of members of the issuer and confirm that securities have been dematerialized as per requests within twenty one days from the date of receipt of requests by the issuer and where the dematerialization has not been effected within the said stipulated period, the report shall disclose the reasons for such delay.
(3)The issuer shall immediately bring to the notice of the depositories and the stock exchanges, any difference observed in its issued, listed, and the capital held by depositories in dematerialised form.
77.Every issuer or its agent shall establish continuous electronic means of communication with the depository with which it has entered into an agreement.
78.Every issuer whose securities have been declared as eligible for dematerialisation in a depository shall give information to the depository about book closures, record dates, dates for the payment of interest or dividend, dates for annual general meetings and other meetings, dates for redemption of debentures, dates for conversion of debentures and warrants, call money dates and such other information at the time and in the manner as may be specified by the depository in its bye-laws or agreement:
Provided that no such information would be required to be given to the depository where the State or the Central Government is the issuer of Government securities.
79.(1) If a beneficial owner intends to create a pledge on a security owned by him he shall make an application to the depository through the participant who has his account in respect of such securities.
(2) The participant after satisfaction that the securities are available for pledge shall make a note in its records of the notice of pledge and forward the application to the depository.
29
(3)Within fifteen days of receipt of the application, the depository shall after concurrence of the pledgee through its participant, create and record the pledge and send an intimation of the same to the participants of the pledger and the pledgee.
(4)On receipt of the intimation under sub-regulation (3) the participants of both the pledger and the pledgee shall inform the pledger and the pledgee respectively of the entry of creation of the pledge.
(5)If the depository does not create the pledge, it shall send along with the reasons an intimation to the participants of the pledger and the pledgee.
(6)The entry of pledge made under sub-regulation (3) may be cancelled by the depository if pledger or the pledgee makes an application to the depository through its participant:
Provided that no entry of pledge shall be cancelled by the depository without prior concurrence of the pledgee.
(7)The depository on the cancellation of the entry of pledge shall inform the participant of the pledger.
(8)Subject to the provisions of the pledge document, the pledgee may invoke the pledge and on such invocation, the depository shall register the pledgee as beneficial owner of such securities and amend its records accordingly.
(9)After amending its records under sub-regulation (8) the depository shall immediately inform the participants of the pledger and pledgee of the change who in turn shall make the necessary changes in their records and inform the pledger and pledgee respectively.
(10)If a beneficial owner intends to create a hypothecation on a security owned by him he may do so in accordance with the provisions of sub-regulations (1) to (9).
(11)The provisions of sub-regulations (1) to (9) shall mutatis mutandis apply in such cases of hypothecation:
Provided that the depository before registering the hypothecatee as a beneficial owner shall obtain the prior concurrence of the hypothecator.
(12)No transfer of security in respect of which a notice or entry of pledge or hypothecation is in force shall be effected by a participant without the concurrence of the pledgee or the hypothecatee, as the case may be.
3[Explanation:- For the purpose of these regulations, “pledge” includes re-pledge of securities for margin and / or settlement obligations of the client or such other purposes as specified by the Board from time to time.]
80.(1) A depository or a participant or any of their employees shall not render, directly or indirectly, any investment advice about any security in the publicly accessible media, whether
3Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 w.e.f. 21-02-2020
30
real-time or non-real-time, unless a disclosure of his interest including long or short position in the said security has been made, while rendering such advice.
(2)In case an employee of the depository or the participant is rendering such advice, he shall also disclose the interest of his dependent family members and the employer including their long or short position in the said security, while rendering such advice.
81.A depository and a participant shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be responsible for monitoring the compliance of the Act, rules and regulations, notifications, guidelines, instructions, etc., issued thereunder and for redressal of investors’ grievances.
(2) The compliance officer shall immediately and independently report to the Board any non- compliance observed by him.
83.(1) Subject to the provisions of applicable laws in force, a depository may apply for listing of its securities on a recognised stock exchange if,─
(a)it is compliant with the provisions of these regulations particularly those relating to ownership and governance;
(b)it has completed three years of continuous depository operations immediately preceding the date of application of listing; and
(c)it has obtained approval of the Board.
84.The Board may appoint one or more persons as inspecting officer to undertake inspection of the books of account, records, documents and infrastructure, systems and procedures, or to investigate the affairs of a depository, a participant, a beneficial owner an issuer or its agent for any of the following purposes, namely:—
(a)
to ensure that the books of account are being maintained by the depository, participant,
 
issuer or its agent in the manner specified in these regulations;
(b)
to look into the complaints received from the depositories, participants, issuers, issuers’
 
agents, beneficial owners or any other person;
(c)
to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act, the Depositories Act, the bye-laws,
 
agreements and these regulations are being complied with by the depository, participant,
 
beneficial owner, issuer or its agent;
(d)
to ascertain whether the systems, procedures and safeguards being followed by a
 
depository, participant, beneficial owner, issuer or its agent are adequate;
(e)
to suo motu ensure that the affairs of a depository, participant, beneficial owner, issuer or
 
its agent, are being conducted in a manner which are in the interest of the investors or the
 
securities market.
85.(1) Before ordering an inspection or investigation under regulation 84, the Board shall give not less than ten days notice to the depository, participant, beneficial owner, issuer or its agent, as the case may be.
(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may, by an order in writing direct that such inspection be taken up without such notice.
(3)During the course of an inspection or investigation, the depository, a participant, a beneficial owner, an issuer or its agent against whom the inspection or investigation is being carried out shall be bound to discharge his obligation as provided in regulation 86.
86.(1) It shall be the duty of the depository, a participant, a beneficial owner, an issuer or its agent whose affairs are being inspected or investigated, and of every director, officer and employee thereof, to produce to the inspecting officer such books, securities, accounts, records and other documents in its custody or control and furnish him with such statements and information relating to his activities as a depository, a participant, a beneficial owner, an issuer or its agent, as the inspecting officer may require, within such reasonable period as the inspecting officer may specify.
(2)The depository, a participant, a beneficial owner, an issuer or its agent also allow the inspecting officer to have reasonable access to the premises occupied by him or by any other
32
person on his behalf and also extend reasonable facility for examining any books, records, documents and computer data in the possession of the depository, a participant, a beneficial owner, an issuer or its agent or such other person and also provide copies of documents or other materials which, in the opinion of the inspecting officer are relevant for the purposes of the inspection.
(3)The inspecting officer, in the course of inspection or investigation, shall be entitled to examine or to record the statements of any director, officer or employee of the depository, a participant, a beneficial owner, an issuer or its agent.
(4)It shall be the duty of every director, officer or employee of the depository, a participant, a beneficial owner, an issuer or its agent to give to the inspecting officer all assistance in connection with the inspection, which the inspecting officer may reasonably require.
87.The inspecting officer shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection or investigation as the case may be, submit a report to the Board:
Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit interim reports.
88.The Board or the Chairman shall after consideration of inspection or investigation report take such action as the Board or Chairman may deem fit and appropriate including action under Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.
89.The Board shall have the power to appoint an auditor to inspect or investigate, into the books of account, records, documents, infrastructures, systems and procedures or affairs of a depository, a participant, a beneficial owner, an issuer or its agent :
Provided that the auditor so appointed shall have the same powers of the inspecting or investigating officer as stated in regulations 84 and 85, and the obligation of the depository, participant, beneficial owner, issuer or its agent and their respective directors, officers and employees, as the case may be, as stated in regulation 86, shall be applicable to the inspection or investigation under this regulation.
90.The Board shall be entitled to recover from the depository, participant, beneficial owner, issuer or its agent, as the case may be, such expenses including fees paid to the auditors as may be incurred by it for the purposes of inspecting or investigating the books of account, records, documents, infrastructures, system and procedures of the depository, participant, beneficial owner, issuer or its agent, as the case may be.
33
92.Without prejudice to the power of the Board to take action, under the provisions of the Act and the Depositories Act, if a depository or a participant:-
(a) contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, the Depositories Act, the bye-laws, agreements and these regulations;
(b) fails to furnish any information relating to its activity as a depository or participant as required under these regulations;
(c) does not furnish the information called for by the Board under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 18 of the Depositories Act or furnishes information which is false or misleading in any material particular;
(d) does not co-operate in any inspection or investigation or enquiry conducted by the Board;
(e) fails to comply with any direction of the Board issued under section 18 of the Depositories Act;
(f) fails to pay the annual fee referred to in regulation 8,
shall be dealt with in the manner provided under Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.
93.(1) If an issuer or its agent -
(a)contravenes any of the provisions of the Depositories Act, the byelaws, agreements, these regulations and directions issued thereunder;
(b)fails to furnish any information relating to its activity as an issuer as required under these regulations;
(c)does not furnish the information called for by the Board under clause (a) of sub- section (1) of section 18 of the Depositories Act or furnishes information which is false or misleading in any material particular;
(d)does not co-operate in any inspection or investigation or enquiry conducted by the Board;
(e)fails to comply with any direction of the Board issued under section 18 of the Depositories Act,
34
the Board may, without prejudice to any other action which it may take under the Act, take any action against such issuer or its agent under the Depositories Act.
93A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis.
94.The Board may from time to time call for any information, documents or records from the depository or its governing board or any shareholder or applicant thereof and from depository participant.
95.Without prejudice to exercise of its powers under the provisions of the Act, Depositories Act, 1996 and rules and regulations made thereunder, the Board may, either suo motu or on
4Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17-04-2020.
35
receipt of any information or during pendency of any inspection, inquiry or investigation or on completion thereof, in the interest of public or trade or investors or the securities market, issue
such directions as it deems fit, including but not limited to any or all of the following:─
(a)directing a person holding equity shares or rights over equity shares in a depository in contravention of these regulations to divest his holding, in such manner as may be specified in the direction;
(b)directing transfer of any proceeds or securities to the Investor Protection Fund of a depository;
(c)debarring any depository, any shareholder of such depository, or any associate and agent of such shareholder, or any transferee of shares from such shareholder, or applicant(s), director(s) and key management personnel(s) of the depository from accessing the securities market and/or dealing in securities for such period as may be determined by the Board.
96.In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the provisions of these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue directions through guidance notes or circulars.
97.For the purposes of implementation of these regulations and matters incidental thereto, the Board may specify norms, procedures, processes, manners or guidelines as specified in these regulations, by way of circulars.
98.(1) On and from the commencement of these regulations, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996, shall stand repealed.
(2)Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken or purported to have been taken or contemplated under the repealed regulations before the commencement of these regulations shall be deemed to have been done or taken or commenced or contemplated under the corresponding provisions of these regulations.
(3)After the repeal of the regulations referred to in sub-regulation (1), any reference thereto in any regulation, guideline, circular or direction issued by the Board shall be deemed to be a reference to the relevant provisions of these regulations.
1.(1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India {KYC (Know Your Client) REGISTRATION AGENCY} Regulations, 2011.
(2)They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall bear the meanings assigned to them below -
(a)‘‘Act’’ means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);
(b)“Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 of the Act;
(c)“Certificate” means a certificate of registration granted by the Board under these regulations;
(d)“Client” means a person seeking to do/has done his KYC through intermediary with
KRA;
(e)‘‘Inspecting authority’’ means any one or more person appointed by the Board to exercise powers conferred under chapter IV;
(f)“Intermediary” means an entity associated with securities market and registered under sub-section (1A), (1B) and (1) of Section 12 of the Act; who is required to do KYC of its clients;
(g)“Intermediaries Regulations’’ means Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008;
(h)“KYC Registration Agency (KRA)” is a company formed and registered under the
Companies Act, 1956 and which has been granted a certificate of registration under these regulations which hereinafter shall be deemed to be an intermediary in terms of the provisions of the Act;
(i)‘‘KYC’’ means the procedure prescribed by the Board for identifying and verifying the
Proof of Address, Proof of Identity and compliance with rules, regulations, guidelines and circulars issued by the Board or any other authority for Prevention of Money Laundering from time to time;
(j)“Operating Instructions” means operating instructions made by a KRA under Regulation
15;
(k)“Rules’’ means Prevention of Money Laundering Rules, 2005;
(l)“Prescribed” means prescribed by a general or special order or circular issued under the
Act or these regulations.
3.An application for the grant of a certificate of registration as a KRA shall be made to the Board in Form as specified in Schedule I and shall be accompanied by such fees and in such manner as specified in Schedule II of these regulations.
Application to conform to the requirements
4.An application, which is not complete in all respects and does not conform to the instructions prescribed in the Form and the requirements specified therein or the information, is false or misleading in any manner shall be rejected by the Board.
Provided that before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given, in writing, an opportunity to remove, within thirty days of the date of communication in this regard, such objections as may be indicated by the Board.
Notwithstanding anything contained in the first proviso, the Board may, on being satisfied that it is necessary, extend the time period by such further time, as it deems fit, in order to enable the applicant to remove the objections indicated by the Board.
5.(1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish such further information or documents or clarifications as the Board considers necessary for the purpose of consideration of the application.
(2)The applicant or his authorized representative shall, if so required, appear before the Board for personal representation in connection with the grant of certificate of registration.
6.(1) The Board shall not consider an application, unless the applicant is a fit and proper person to the satisfaction of the Board and belongs to one of the following categories, namely:
(a)a wholly owned subsidiary of a recognized stock exchange, having nation-wide network of trading terminals, or;
(b)a wholly owned subsidiary of a depository or any other intermediary registered with the Board or;
(c)a wholly owned subsidiary of a Self Regulatory Organization (SRO) registered under SEBI (Self Regulatory Organization) Regulations, 2004,
Provided that any conflict of interest does not exist between the role of the applicant as KRA and other commercial activities of the applicant, its associates and group companies.
Provided further that the applicant shall have to satisfy to the Board about the organizational capabilities, technology and systems and safeguards for maintaining data privacy and preventing unauthorized sharing of data.
Notwithstanding the aforementioned, the Board shall have the power to examine any possible case of conflict of interest in applications.
(2)The applicant as mentioned in sub regulation (a) to (c) of regulation 6(1) above shall have a net worth of at least Rs 25 crore on a continuous basis.
Grant of certificate of 3[***] registration
7.(1) The Board, on being satisfied that the applicant is eligible, shall send intimation to that effect to the applicant, for the grant of certificate o4f [***] registration, and grant a certificate in the Form as specified in Schedule I.
5[(1A) The KRA which has already been granted certificate of registration by the Board, prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 shall be deemed to have been granted a certificate of registration, in terms of sub-regulation (1).]
6[(2) The certificate of registration granted under sub-regulation (1) shall be valid unless it is suspended or cancelled by the Board.]
(3)The grant of certificate of 7[***] registration shall be subject to the payment of such fees and in such manner as specified in Schedule II of these regulations.
8.(1) The KRA which has been granted a certificate of initial registration under regulation 7 may, three months before the expiry of the period of certificate of initial registration, make an application for grant of certificate of permanent registration in the Form as specified in Schedule I.
(2) An application under sub-regulation (1) shall be accompanied by such fees and in such manner as specified in Schedule II of these regulations.
(3) The application for grant of a certificate of permanent registration shall be accompanied by details of the changes that have taken place in the information that was submitted to the Board while seeking initial registration, as the case may be, and a declaration stating that no changes other than those as mentioned in such details have taken place.
(4) The application for permanent registration made under sub-regulation (1) shall be dealt with in the same manner as if, it were a fresh application for grant of a certificate of initial registration.
(5) The Board, on being satisfied that the applicant is eligible, shall send intimation to that effect, to the applicant and shall grant a certificate of permanent registration in the format as specified in Schedule I.
(6) The grant of certificate of permanent registration shall be subject to payment of such fees and in such manner as specified in Schedule II of these regulations.”
9.For the purpose of determining whether an applicant is a fit and proper person, the Board may take into account the criteria specified in Schedule II of Intermediaries Regulations.
10.The KRA holding a certificate of registration shall at all times abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in Schedule III of these regulations.
11.(1) Where an application for the grant of certificate of 10[***] registration does not satisfy the requirements specified in regulation 6 & 9, the Board shall reject the application after giving the applicant an opportunity of being heard.
(2)The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant in writing within thirty days of such decision, stating therein the grounds on which the application has been rejected.
(3)Any applicant, aggrieved by the decision of the Board, may apply within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of such intimation to the Board for reconsideration of its decision.
(4)The Board shall reconsider an application made under sub-regulation (3) and
12.A KRA whose application for grant of certificate of permanent registration has been refused by the Board, on and from the date of the receipt of the communication, shall cease to carry on any activity as a KRA; Provided that the Board may, in the interest of the investors of the securities market, permit KRA to carry on activities undertaken prior to the receipt of the intimation of refusal subject to such condition as the Board may specify.”
(2)While disposing a surrender request under these regulations, the Board may require the KRA to satisfy the Board about the factors, as it deems fit, including but not limited to the following
–
a.the arrangements made by KRA for maintenance and preservation of records and
other documents required to be maintained under these regulations; b. redressal of investor grievances;
c. transfer of records of its clients;
d. the arrangements made by it for ensuring continuity of service to the clients; e. defaults or pending action, if any.
(3)While accepting the surrender, the Board may impose such conditions upon the KRA, as it deems fit, for protection of the interests of investors and the securities market, and such person shall comply with such conditions.
(4)On and from the date of the surrender or cancellation of the certificate, the KRA shall-
(a)return the certificate of registration so cancelled to the Board and shall not represent itself to be a holder of the certificate for carrying out the activity for which such certificate had been granted;
(b)cease to carry on any activity in respect of which the certificate had been granted;
(c)transfer its activities to another entity holding a valid certificate of registration to carry on such activity and allow its clients to withdraw any assignment given to it, without any additional cost to such client;
(d)make provisions as regards liability incurred or assumed by it;
13.(1) A KRA, who has been granted a certificate of registration under the Act or the regulations made there under, desirous of giving up its activity and surrender the certificate, may make a request for such surrender to the Board.
10The words “initial or permanent” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution, it sub-regulation (2) read as under:
11Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission regulation 12 read as under:
14.The KRA shall obtain the KYC documents of the client from the intermediary; as prescribed by the Board and in terms of the rules, regulations, guidelines and circulars issued by the Board or any other authority for Prevention of Money Laundering, from time to time.
15. The KRA has the following functions and obligations –
(a)KRA may prepare the Operating Instructions in co-ordination with other KRA(s) and issue the same to implement the requirements of these regulations.
(b)KRA(s) shall have electronic connectivity and with other KRA(s) in order to establish inter- operability among KRAs.
Explanation: Inter-operability means the ability of the KRA to determine whether the KYC documents of the client are in the custody of another KRA.
(c)KRA shall have a secure data transmission link with other KRA(s) and with each intermediary that uploads the KYC documents on its system and relies upon its data.
(d)KRA shall be responsible for storing, safeguarding and retrieving the KYC documents and submit to the Board or any other statutory authority as and when required.
(e)KRA shall retain the 12[] KYC documents of the client, in 13[] electronic form for the period specified by Rules, as well as ensuring that retrieval of KYC information is facilitated within stipulated time period.
(f)Any information updated about a client shall be disseminated by KRA to all intermediaries that avail of the services of the KRA in respect of that client.
(g)KRA shall ensure that the integrity of the automatic data processing systems for electronic records is maintained at all times.
(h)KRA shall take all precautions necessary to ensure that the KYC documents/records are not lost, destroyed or tampered with and that sufficient back up of electronic records is available at all times at a different place.
(i)KRA shall have adequate mechanisms for the purposes of reviewing, monitoring and evaluating its controls, systems, procedures and safeguards.
(j)KRA shall cause an audit of its controls, systems, procedures and safeguards to be carried out periodically and take corrective actions for deficiencies, if any and report to Board.
(k)KRA shall take all reasonable measures to prevent unauthorized access to its database and have audit of its systems and procedures at regular intervals as prescribed by the
Board.
(l)KRA shall have checks built in its system so that an intermediary can access the information only for the clients who approach him.
(m)KRA shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be responsible for monitoring the compliance of the Act, rules and regulations, notifications, guidelines, instructions, etc., issued by the Board or the Central Government and for redressal of client’s grievances. The compliance officer shall immediately and independently report to the Board any non-compliance observed by him.
(n)KRA shall send a letter to each client after receipt of the KYC documents from the intermediary, confirming the client’s details thereof.
(o)KRA shall take adequate steps for redressal of the grievances of the clients within one month of the date of receipt of the complaint and keep the Board informed about the number, nature and other particulars of the complaints from such investors.
12Omitted by SEBI {KYC(Know Your Client) Registration Agency} (Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f. 22-
03-2013.
13ibid.
16. The Intermediary has the following functions and obligations –
14[(a) The intermediary shall perform the initial KYC/due diligence of the client, upload the KYC information with proper authentication on the system of the KRA, furnish the scanned images of the KYC documents to the KRA, and retain the physical KYC documents:
Provided that in the case of clients of a mutual fund, the Registrar to an Issue and Share Transfer Agent appointed by the mutual fund may perform the initial KYC/due diligence of the client, upload the KYC information with proper authentication on the system of the KRA, and furnish the scanned images of KYC documents to the KRA.]
15[(aa) The intermediary or the mutual fund, as the case may be, shall furnish the physical KYC documents or authenticated copies thereof to the KRA, whenever so desired by the KRA.]
16[(b) When the client approaches another intermediary subsequently, the intermediary shall verify and download the client’s details from the system of KRA:
Provided that upon receipt of information on change in KYC details and status of the clients by the intermediary or when it comes to the knowledge of the intermediary, at any stage, the intermediary shall be responsible for uploading the updated information on the system of KRA and retaining the physical documents.
(c)An intermediary shall not use the KYC data of a client obtained from the KRA for purposes other than it is meant for; nor shall it make any commercial gain by sharing the same with any third party including its affiliates or associates.
(d)The intermediary shall have the ultimate responsibility for the KYC of its clients, by undertaking enhanced KYC measures commensurate with the risk profile of its clients.
17[Sharing of KYC information in the financial sector.
14Substituted by the SEBI {KYC(Know Your Client) Registration Agency} (Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f.
22-03-2013 for the following:
(a) The intermediary shall perform the initial KYC/due diligence of the client, shall upload the KYC information on the system of the KRA and send the original KYC documents to KRA forthwith from the date of account opening or within the time as prescribed by the board from time to time. However, in case of mutual funds, an RTA appointed by the mutual fund may also undertake the KYC of the client and send the original documents to the mutual fund or KRA.
15Inserted by the SEBI {KYC(Know Your Client) Registration Agency} (Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f.
22-03-2013
16Substituted by the SEBI {KYC(Know Your Client) Registration Agency} (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e.f.
13-03-2014 for the following:
(b) When the client approaches another intermediary subsequently, it will be optional for the intermediary to verify and download the client’s details from the system of KRA or to take fresh KYC as per existing system. However, upon receipt of information on change in KYC details and status of the clients by the intermediary or when it comes to the knowledge of the intermediary, at any stage, the intermediary shall be responsible for uploading the updated information on the system of KRA and 16[retaining the physical documents].
16A. (1) The entities, regulated by other regulators in the financial sector specified by the Board from time to time, may access the system of KRA for undertaking KYC of their clients who engage them for financial services.
(2)The provisions of these regulations shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to the entities regulated by other regulators specified in sub-regulation (1).
(3)The system of KRA may be connected with any central KYC registry authorised by the Central Government for the purpose of collation and sharing of the KYC information in the financial sector.]
18.(1) The Board may appoint one or more persons as inspecting authority to undertake inspection of the books of accounts, records, documents, infrastructure, systems and procedures, of a KRA, for any purpose specified in sub-regulation (2).
(2) The Board may inspect a KRA for the following purposes:
(a)that the books of accounts, records and KYC documents, as prescribed by the Board, are being maintained by the KRA;
(b)to look into the complaints received by the KRA from clients or any other person;
(c)to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act and these regulations are being complied with;
(d)to ascertain whether the systems, procedures and safeguards being followed by a KRA are adequate;
(e)to ensure that privacy of clients’ data is maintained and the same is not shared with any other agency/associates in violation of these regulations;
(f)to ensure that the affairs of a KRA are being conducted in a manner which are in the interest of the investors and securities market.
19.(1) Before undertaking an inspection under regulation 19, the Board shall give not less than
10days notice to the KRA, for that purpose.
(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may, by an order in writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the KRA be taken up without such notice.
(3)On being empowered by the Board, the inspecting authority shall undertake inspection and the KRA against whom an inspection is being carried out shall be bound to discharge his obligations as provided under regulation 20.
20.(1) It shall be the duty of the KRA whose affairs are being inspected, and of every director, officer and employee thereof, to produce to the inspecting authority such books, accounts, records and other documents in its custody or control and furnish him with such statements and information relating to its activities as a KRA, within such reasonable period as the inspecting authority may require.
(2)The KRA shall allow the inspecting authority to have reasonable access to the premises occupied by it or by any other person on their behalf and also extend reasonable facility for examining any books, records, documents and computer data in the possession of the KRA or
any other person on their behalf and also provide copies of the documents or other materials which, in the opinion of the inspecting authority are relevant for the purposes of the inspection.
(3)The inspecting authority, in the course of inspection, shall be entitled to examine or to record the statements of any director, officer or employee of the KRA.
(4)It shall be the duty of every director, officer or employee of the KRA to give to the inspecting authority all assistance in connection with the inspection, which the inspecting authority may reasonably require.
21.The inspecting authority shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection, submit a report to the Board:
Provided that if directed to do so by the Board the inspecting authority shall submit interim reports.
22.(1) The Board shall, after consideration of the inspection report, communicate the findings of the inspecting authority to the KRA, seek its comments on the same and if required, give it an opportunity of being heard.
(2)On receipt of the reply, if any, from the KRA, the Board may call upon him to take such measures, as the Board may deem fit, in the interest of the securities market and for due compliance with the provisions of the Act, and these regulations.
23.The Board shall after consideration of the inspection report take such action as provided under Chapter V of the Intermediaries Regulations and in terms of the Act.
24.(1) The Board shall have the power to appoint a qualified independent auditor to inspect, into the books of accounts, records, documents, infrastructures, systems and procedures of a KRA.
25. A KRA shall be liable for action if it –
(a)contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, and these regulations;
(b)fails to furnish any information relating to its activity as a KRA as required under these regulations;
(c)does not co-operate in any inspection or investigation or enquiry conducted by the Board;
(d)fails to comply with any direction of the Board;
(e)fails to pay the requisite fees to the Board;
26.(1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
18Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17-04-2020.
(2)Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis.
1.(1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020.
(2) These regulations shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, ─
(a)“Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);
(b)“body corporate” shall have the meaning assigned to it under sub-section (11) of
Page 1 of 62
Section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) as amended from time to time;
(c)“certificate” means a certificate of registration issued by the Board;
(d)“change of status or constitution” in relation to a portfolio manager─
(i)means any change in its status or constitution of whatsoever nature; and
(ii)without prejudice to generality of sub-clause (i), includes–
(A)amalgamation, demerger, consolidation or any other kind of corporate restructuring falling within the scope of section 230 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) or the corresponding provision of any other law for the time being in force; and
(B)any change in control over the body corporate;
(e)“change in control”, in relation to a portfolio manager being a body corporate, shall be construed with reference to : ─
(i)the definition of control in terms of Regulation 2(1)(e) of SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 as amended from time to time, if its shares are listed on any recognized stock exchange;
(ii)in any other case, change in the controlling interest in the body corporate;
Explanation. ─ For the purpose of sub-clause (ii), the expression “controlling interest” means,
(A)an interest, whether direct or indirect, to the extent of at least fifty-one percent of voting rights in the body corporate;
(B)right to appoint majority of the directors or to control the management directly or indirectly.
(f)“chartered accountant" means a chartered accountant as defined in clause (b) of sub-section
(1) of section 2 of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 (38 of 1949) and who has obtained a certificate of practice under sub-section (1) of section 6 of that Act;
Page 2 of 62
(g)“discretionary portfolio manager” means a portfolio manager who under a contract relating to portfolio management, exercises or may exercise, any degree of discretion as to the investment of funds or management of the portfolio of securities of the client, as the case may be;
(h)“eligible fund manager” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in
sub-section (4) of Section 9A of the Income-tax Act, 1961;
(i)“eligible investment fund” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in
sub-section (3) of Section 9A of the Income-tax Act, 1961;
(j)"form" means a form specified in Schedule I;
(k)“goods” means the goods notified by the Central Government under clause (bc) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and forming the underlying of any commodity derivative;
(l)"inspecting authority" means one or more persons appointed by the Board to exercise powers conferred under Chapter V;
(m)“NISM” means the National Institute of Securities Market established by the Board;
(n)“portfolio” means the total holdings of securities and goods belonging to any person;
(o)“portfolio manager” means a body corporate, which pursuant to a contract with a client, advises or directs or undertakes on behalf of the client (whether as a discretionary portfolio manager or otherwise) the management or administration of a portfolio of securities or goods or funds of the client, as the case may be:
Provided that the Portfolio Manager may deal in goods received in delivery against physical
Page 3 of 62
settlement of commodity derivatives.
(p)“principal officer” means an employee of the portfolio manager who has been designated as such by the portfolio manager and is responsible for: -
(i)the decisions made by the portfolio manager for the management or administration of portfolio of securities or the funds of the client, as the case may be; and
(ii)all other operations of the portfolio manager.
3.No person shall act as a portfolio manager unless it has obtained a certificate of registration from the Board under these regulations.
4.(1) An application by a person for the grant of a certificate shall be made to the Board in Form A of Schedule I and shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee, as specified in para
(1) of Schedule II.
(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), any application made by a person prior to coming into force of these regulations containing such particulars or as near thereto as mentioned in Form A of Schedule I shall be treated as an application made in pursuance of sub- regulation (1) and dealt with accordingly.
Page 4 of 62
5.Subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 4, any application, which is not complete in all respects and does not conform to the instructions specified in the form, shall be rejected:
Provided that, before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given an opportunity to remove objections indicated by the Board, within the time specified, not later than 3 weeks.
6.(1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish further information or clarification regarding matters relevant to his activity of a portfolio manager for the purposes of disposal of the application.
(2)The applicant or its principal officer shall, if so required, appear before the Board for personal representation.
7.(1) For considering the grant of certificate of registration to the applicant, the Board shall take into account all matters which it deems relevant to the activities relating to portfolio management.
(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions, the Board shall consider whether :-
(a)the applicant is a body corporate;
(b)the applicant has the necessary infrastructure like adequate office space, equipment and the manpower to effectively discharge the activities of a portfolio manager;
(c)the applicant has appointed a compliance officer;
Page 5 of 62
(d)the principal officer of the applicant has–
(i)a professional qualification in finance, law, accountancy or business management from a university or an institution recognized by the Central Government or any State Government or a foreign university or a CFA charter from the CFA institute;
(ii)experience of at least five years in related activities in the securities market including in a portfolio manager, stock broker, investment advisor, research analyst or as a fund manager; and
(iii)the relevant NISM certification as specified by the Board from time to time.
Provided that at least 2 years of relevant experience is in portfolio management or investment advisory services or in the areas related to fund management.
Provided further that a portfolio manager, who was granted a certificate of registration prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020, shall comply with sub clauses (i) and (ii) of clause (d) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 7 within thirty-six months from such commencement.
(e)In addition to the Principal Officer and Compliance Officer, the applicant has in its employment at least one person with the following qualifications :-
(i)graduation from a university or an institution recognized by the Central Government or any State Government or a foreign university; and
(ii)an experience of at least two years in related activities in the securities market including in a portfolio manager, stock broker, investment advisor or as a fund manager:
Provided that any employee of the Portfolio Manager who has decision making authority related to fund management shall have the same minimum qualifications and experience as specified for the Principal Officer in clause (d) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 7:
Provided further that a portfolio manager, who was granted a certificate of registration
Page 6 of 62
prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020, shall comply with sub clauses (i) and (ii) of clause (e) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 7 within twelve months from such commencement;
(f)any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board against a person directly or indirectly connected with the applicant under the Act or the rules or the regulations made thereunder;
Explanation. ─ For the purposes of sub-clause (f), the expression "person directly or indirectly connected" means any person being an associate, subsidiary company or an associate company within the meaning of sub-section (6) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013;
(g)the applicant fulfills the net worth requirement specified in regulation 9;
(h)the applicant, its director or partner, principal officer, compliance officer or the employee as specified in clause (e) is involved in any litigation connected with the securities market that has an adverse bearing on the business of the applicant;
(i)the applicant, its director or partner, principal officer, compliance officer or the employee as specified in clause (e) has at any time been convicted for any offence involving moral turpitude or has been found guilty of any economic offence;
(j)the applicant is a fit and proper person;
8.For the purposes of determining whether an applicant or the portfolio manager is a fit and proper person, the Board may take into account the criteria specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.
Page 7 of 62
9. The net worth referred to in clause (g) of regulation 7 shall not be less than five crore rupees:
Provided that a portfolio manager, who was granted a certificate of registration prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020, shall raise its net worth to not less than five crore rupees within thirty-six months from such commencement:
Provided further that the portfolio manager shall fulfill the net worth requirements under these regulations, separately and independently, of the capital adequacy requirements, if any, for each activity undertaken by it under the relevant regulations.
Explanation. ─ For the purposes of this regulation, "net worth" means the aggregate value of paid up equity capital plus free reserves (excluding reserves created out of revaluation) reduced by the aggregate value of accumulated losses and deferred expenditure not written off, including miscellaneous expenses not written off.
10.(1) The Board on being satisfied that the applicant fulfils the requirements specified in regulation 7 shall send an intimation to the applicant and on receipt of the payment of registration fees as specified in paragraph (2) of Schedule II grant a certificate in Form B of Schedule I.
(2)The portfolio manager who has already been granted a certificate of registration by the Board, prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020 shall be deemed to have been granted a certificate of registration, in terms of sub- regulation (1).
11.The certificate of registration granted under regulation 10 shall, inter alia, be subject to the following conditions, namely: -
(a)the portfolio manager shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations;
Page 8 of 62
(b)the portfolio manager shall forthwith inform the Board in writing, if any information or particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be false or misleading in any material particular or if there is any material change in the information already submitted;
(c)the portfolio manager shall pay the fees for registration in the manner provided in these regulations;
(d)the portfolio manager shall take adequate steps for redressal of grievances of the investors within one month of the date of the receipt of the complaint and keep the Board informed about the number, nature and other particulars of the complaints received; and
(e)the portfolio manager shall maintain the net worth specified in regulation 9 at all times during the period of the certificate.
12.The certificate of registration granted under regulation 10 shall be valid unless it is suspended or cancelled by the Board.
13.(1) After considering an application made under regulation 4, if the Board is of the opinion that a certificate should not be granted to the applicant, it may reject the application after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(2)The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant within thirty days of such decision.
14.Any portfolio manager whose application for a certificate has been refused by the Board shall on and from the date of the receipt of the communication under sub- regulation (2) of regulation
13cease to carry on any activity as portfolio manager.
Page 9 of 62
15. (1) Every applicant eligible for grant of a certificate shall pay such fees within 15 days of
receiving intimation from the Board and in such manner as specified in
Schedule II:
Provided that the Board may on sufficient cause being shown allow the portfolio manager to pay such fees at any time before the expiry of one month from the date on which such fees become due.
16.(1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to eligible fund managers exclusively, pertaining to their activities as portfolio managers to eligible investment funds.
(2)All other provisions of these regulations and the guidelines and circulars issued thereunder, unless the context otherwise requires or is repugnant to the provisions of this chapter, shall apply to eligible fund managers in relation to their activities as portfolio managers to eligible investment funds.
17.An existing portfolio manager may act as a portfolio manager to an eligible investment fund
if:
(a)it fulfills all the conditions specified in sub section (4) of Section 9A of the Income-tax Act, 1961; and
(b)it intimates the Board prior to undertaking such activity and submit declarations as
Page 10 of 62
specified in clause (1) of Schedule VI.
18.An applicant who is a body corporate who intends to act as an eligible fund manager may be granted registration under regulation 10 if:
(a)it fulfills all the conditions specified in sub section (4) of Section 9A of the Income-tax Act, 1961;
(b)it complies with the requirements specified under Chapter II of these regulations, unless specified otherwise in this Chapter;
(c)it pays the fees as specified in Schedule II; and
(d) it provides a declaration to the Board as specified in paragraph (2) of
Schedule VI.
19.An eligible fund manager shall be required to: -
(1)comply with the requirements specified under Section 9A of the Income-tax Act, 1961 or any amendment, notification, clarification, guideline issued thereunder;
(2)offer discretionary or non-discretionary or advisory services or a combination thereof to eligible investment funds;
(3)operate in accordance to its mutually agreed contract with the eligible investment
funds;
(4)provide all material disclosures to eligible investment funds;
(5)segregate funds and securities of each eligible investment fund;
(6)segregate the funds and securities of eligible investment funds from those of its other clients;
Page 11 of 62
(7)maintain and segregate its books and accounts pertaining to its activities as a portfolio manager to eligible investment funds and other clients;
(8)appoint a custodian:
Provided that the requirement of compliance with this sub-regulation would not arise in case an eligible investment fund has already appointed a custodian under the applicable act or regulations;
(9)keep the funds of eligible investment funds in scheduled commercial banks;
Provided that requirement of compliance with this sub-regulation would not arise in case an eligible investment fund does not intend to invest in Indian securities;
(10)maintain any additional records as may be specified by the Board and disclose the same to the Board as and when required;
(11)provide quarterly reports to the Board;
(12)ensure compliance with the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 and rules and regulations made thereunder;
(13)abide by the provisions in these regulations and circulars / guidelines issued by the Board from time to time.
20.The eligible fund managers shall be exempted from the following provisions pertaining to their activities as portfolio managers to eligible investment funds notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, Schedules thereto or circulars issued thereunder:
(i)sub-regulation (1), (2), (3) and (4) of Regulation 22;
Page 12 of 62
(ii)sub-regulation (2), (3), (4), (8) and (9) of Regulation 23;
(iii)clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 24;
(iv)clause (a) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 24;
(v)sub-regulation (7) of Regulation 24;
(vi)sub-regulation (11) of Regulation 24;
(vii)Regulation 26;
(viii)sub-regulation (3) of Regulation 30;
(ix)sub-regulation (1), (2), and (3) of Regulation 31;
(x)Form C in Schedule I; and
21. Every portfolio manager shall abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in Schedule III.
22.(1) The portfolio manager shall, before taking up an assignment of management of funds and portfolio on behalf of a client, enter into an agreement in writing with such client that clearly defines the inter se relationship and sets out their mutual rights, liabilities and obligations relating to management of portfolio containing the details as specified in Schedule IV.
(2)The agreement between the portfolio manager and the client shall, inter alia, include the following :-
(a)the investment objectives and the services to be provided;
(b)period of the contract and provision of early termination, if any;
(c)investment approach, areas of investment and restrictions, if any, imposed by the client with regard to the investment in a particular company or industry;
Page 13 of 62
Explanation: An investment approach is a broad outlay of the type of securities and permissible instruments to be invested in by the portfolio manager for the customer, taking into account factors specific to clients and securities.
(d)type of instruments and proportion of exposure;
(e)tenure of portfolio investments;
(f)terms for early withdrawal of funds or securities by the clients;
(g)attendant risks involved in the management of the portfolio;
(h)amount to be invested subject to the restrictions provided under these regulations;
(i)procedure of settling client's account including form of repayment on maturity or early termination of contract;
(j)fees payable to the portfolio manager;
(k)the quantum and manner of fees payable by the client for each activity for which service is rendered by the portfolio manager directly or indirectly (where such service is out sourced);
(l)custody of securities;
(m)in case of a discretionary portfolio manager; a condition that the liability of a client shall not exceed his investment with the portfolio manager;
(n)accounting terms, audit and furnishing of the reports to the clients as per the provisions of these regulations; and
(o)other terms of portfolio investment subject to these regulations.
(3)The portfolio manager shall provide to the client, the Disclosure Document as specified in Schedule V, along with a certificate in Form C as specified in Schedule I, prior to entering into an agreement with the client as referred to in sub-regulation (1).
(4)The Disclosure Document, shall inter alia include the following :─
(a)the quantum and manner of payment of fees payable by the client for each activity for which service is rendered by the portfolio manager directly or indirectly (where such service is out sourced);
(b)portfolio risks including risk specific to each investment approach offered by the portfolio
Page 14 of 62
manager;
(c)complete disclosures of transactions with related parties as per the accounting standards specified by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India;
(d)details of conflicts of interest related to services offered by group companies or associates of the portfolio manager;
(e)the performance of the portfolio manager:
Provided that the performance of a discretionary portfolio manager shall be calculated using ‘Time Weighted Rate of Return’ for the immediately preceding three years and in such cases performance indicators shall also be disclosed:
Provided further that the portfolio manager may be allowed to disclose performance segregated on the basis of investment approach;
(f)the audited financial statements of the portfolio manager for the immediately preceding three years.
(5)The contents of the Disclosure Document shall be certified by an independent chartered accountant.
(6)The portfolio manager shall ensure that a copy of Disclosure Document is available on the website of the portfolio manager at all times and as soon as the registration is granted.
(7)The portfolio manager shall file with the Board, a copy of the Disclosure Document after grant of certificate of registration before circulating it to any client or whenever any material change including change in the investment approach is effected. The portfolio manager shall file the disclosure document with the material change within 7 working days from the date of the change.
(8)The portfolio manager shall file disclosure document along with the certificate in Form C as specified in Schedule I.
(9)The portfolio manager shall disclose a change in the identity of the Principal Officer to the Board and the clients within 7 working days of effecting the change.
Page 15 of 62
(10)The portfolio manager shall report its performance uniformly in the disclosures to the Board, marketing materials and reports to the clients and on its website.
(11)The portfolio manager shall charge an agreed fee from the clients for rendering portfolio management services without guaranteeing or assuring, either directly or indirectly, any return and the fee so charged may be a fixed fee or a return based fee or a combination of both:
Provided that no up-front fees shall be charged by the portfolio manager directly or in-directly to the clients.
23.(1) The discretionary portfolio manager shall individually and independently manage the funds of each client in accordance with the needs of the client, in a manner which does not partake character of a Mutual Fund, whereas the non-discretionary portfolio manager shall manage the funds in accordance with the directions of the client.
(2)The portfolio manager shall not accept from the client, funds or securities worth less than fifty lakh rupees:
Provided that the minimum investment amount per client shall be applicable for new clients and fresh investments by existing clients:
Provided further that existing investments of clients, as on the date of notification of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020, may continue as such till maturity of the investment or as specified by the Board.
(3) The portfolio manager shall act in a fiduciary capacity with regard to the client's funds.
Page 16 of 62
(4)The portfolio manager shall segregate each client’s holding in securities in separate accounts.
(5)The portfolio manager shall keep the funds of all clients in a separate account to be maintained by it in a Scheduled Commercial Bank.
Explanation. ─ For the purposes of this sub-regulation, the expression ‘Scheduled Commercial Bank’ means any bank included in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934).
(6)The portfolio manager shall transact in securities within the limitation placed by the client himself with regard to dealing in securities under the provisions of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934).
(7)The portfolio manager shall not derive any direct or indirect benefit out of the client's funds or securities.
(8)The portfolio manager shall not borrow funds or securities on behalf of the client.
(9)The portfolio manager shall not lend securities held on behalf of the clients to a third person except as provided under these regulations.
(10)The portfolio manager shall ensure proper and timely handling of complaints from his clients and take appropriate action immediately.
(11)The portfolio manager shall ensure that any person or entity involved in the distribution of its services is carrying out the distribution activities in compliance with these regulations and circulars issued thereunder from time to time.
24.(1) (a) The money or securities accepted by the portfolio manager shall not be invested or managed by the portfolio manager except in terms of the agreement between the portfolio manager and the client.
Page 17 of 62
(b)Any renewal of portfolio on maturity of the initial period shall be deemed as a fresh placement.
(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in the agreement referred to in regulation 22, the funds or securities can be withdrawn by the client before the maturity of the contract under the following circumstances, namely-
(a)voluntary or compulsory termination of portfolio management services by the portfolio manager or the client;
(b)suspension or cancellation of the certificate of registration of the portfolio manager by the Board;
(c)bankruptcy or liquidation of the portfolio manager.
(3)The discretionary portfolio manager shall invest funds of his clients in the securities listed or traded on a recognized stock exchange, money market instruments, units of Mutual Funds and other securities as specified by Board from time to time, on behalf of their clients.
Explanation. ─ For the purposes of this sub-regulation: "money market instruments" includes commercial paper, trade bill, treasury bills, certificate of deposit and usance bills.
(4)The portfolio manager offering non-discretionary or advisory services to clients may invest or provide advice for investment up to 25% of the assets under management of such clients in unlisted securities, in addition to the securities permitted for discretionary portfolio management.
(5)Portfolio Managers may invest in units of Mutual Funds only through direct plan.
(6)The portfolio manager while investing in units of Mutual Funds through direct plan shall not charge any kind of distribution related fees to the client.
Page 18 of 62
(7)The portfolio manager shall not leverage the portfolio of its clients for investment in derivatives.
(8)The portfolio manager shall not deploy the clients' funds in bill discounting, badla financing or for the purpose of lending or placement with corporate or non-corporate bodies.
(9)The portfolio manager shall not invest the clients’ funds in the portfolio managed or administered by another portfolio manager.
(10)The portfolio manager shall not invest client’s fund based on the advice of any other entity.
(11)The portfolio manager shall not while dealing with clients’ funds indulge in speculative
transactions i.e, it shall not enter into any transaction for purchase or sale of any security which is periodically or ultimately settled otherwise than by actual delivery or transfer of security except the transactions in derivatives.
(12)The portfolio manager shall, ordinarily purchase or sell securities separately for each client. However, in the event of aggregation of purchases or sales for economy of scale, inter se allocation shall be done on a pro rata basis and at weighted average price of the day's transactions. The portfolio manager shall not keep any open position in respect of allocation of sales or purchases effected in a day.
(13)The portfolio manager shall not execute off market transfers in client’s account except:
(a)for settlement of the clients’ own trades;
(b)for providing margin/ collateral for clients’ own positions;
(c)for dealing in unlisted securities in accordance with the regulations;
(d)with specific consent of the client for each transaction;
(e)for any other reason specified by the Board from time to time.
(14)The portfolio manager shall segregate each clients' funds and portfolio of securities and keep them separately from his own funds and securities and be responsible for safekeeping of clients'
Page 19 of 62
funds and securities.
(15)The portfolio manager shall not hold the securities belonging to the portfolio account, in its own name on behalf of its clients either by virtue of contract with clients or otherwise.
25. Foreign portfolio investors may avail of the services of a portfolio manager.
26.Every portfolio manager shall appoint a custodian in respect of securities managed or administered by it:
Provided that this regulation shall not apply to a portfolio manager who provides only advisory services.
27.(1) Every portfolio manager shall keep and maintain the following books of accounts, records and documents namely: -
(a)a copy of balance sheet at the end of each accounting period;
(b)a copy of the profit and loss account for each accounting period;
(c)a copy of the auditor’s report on the accounts for each accounting period;
(d)a statement of financial position and;
(e)records in support of every investment transaction or recommendation which will indicate the data, facts and opinion leading to that investment decision:
Provided that such a record shall be maintained under the hands of the Principal Officer of the portfolio manager.
Page 20 of 62
(2)Every portfolio manager shall intimate to the Board the place where the books of accounts, records and documents are maintained.
28.Every portfolio manager shall furnish to the Board a net worth certificate issued by a chartered accountant as and when required by the Board.
29.The portfolio manager shall preserve the books of account and other records and documents mentioned under this chapter for a minimum period of five years.
30.(1) (a) The portfolio manager shall maintain separate client-wise accounts.
(b)The funds received from the clients, investments or disinvestments, all the credits to the account of the client like interest, dividend, bonus, or any other beneficial interest received on the investment and debits for expenses, if any, shall be properly accounted for and details thereof shall be properly reflected in the client's account.
(c)The tax deducted at source as required under the provisions of the Income-Tax Act, 1961, (43 of 1961) shall be recorded in the portfolio account.
(2)The books of account will be audited yearly by qualified auditor to ensure that the portfolio manager has followed proper accounting methods and procedures and that the portfolio manager has performed his duties in accordance with the law. A certificate to this effect shall, if so specified, be submitted to the Board within six months of close of portfolio manager's accounting period.
Page 21 of 62
31.(1) The portfolio manager shall furnish periodically a report to the client, as agreed in the contract, but not exceeding a period of three months and as and when required by the client and such report shall contain the following details, namely: -
(a)the composition and the value of the portfolio, description of securities and goods, number of securities, value of each security held in the portfolio, units of goods, value of goods, cash balance and aggregate value of the portfolio as on the date of report;
(b)transactions undertaken during the period of report including date of transaction and details of purchases and sales;
(c)beneficial interest received during that period in the form of interest, dividend, bonus shares, rights shares, etc;
(d)expenses incurred in managing the portfolio of the client;
(e)details of risk foreseen by the portfolio manager and the risk relating to the securities recommended by the portfolio manager for investment or disinvestment;
(f)default in payment of coupons or any other default in payments in the underlying debt security and downgrading to default rating by the rating agencies, if any;
Page 22 of 62
(g)details of commission paid to distributor(s) for the particular client.
(2)The report referred to in sub-regulation (1) may be made available on the website of the portfolio manager with restricted access to each client.
(3)On termination of the contract, the portfolio manager shall give a detailed statement of accounts to the client and settle the account with the client as agreed in the contract.
32. The portfolio manager shall take steps to rectify the deficiencies made out in the auditor’s report within two months from the date of the auditor’s report as specified in sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 30.
33.The Board may ask portfolio manager to disclose any information as and when required including the following: -
(a)particulars regarding the management of a portfolio;
(b)any change in the information or particulars previously furnished, which have a bearing on the certificate granted to him;
(c)the names of the clients whose portfolio it has managed;
(d)particulars relating to the net worth requirement as specified in regulation 9.
34.(1) Every portfolio manager shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be responsible for monitoring the compliance of the Act, rules and regulations, notifications, guidelines, instructions etc., issued by the Board or the Central Government and for redressal of investors' grievances:
Page 23 of 62
Provided that the role of compliance officer shall not be assigned to the principal officer appointed in terms of clause (d) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 7 or the employee of the portfolio manager
appointed in terms of clause (e) of sub-regulation (2) of
regulation 7.
35.(1) The Board may appoint one or more persons as inspecting authority to undertake the inspection of the books of account, records and documents of the portfolio manager for any of the purposes specified in sub-regulation (2).
(2)The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) may be as follows: -
(a)to ensure that the books of account are being maintained in the manner required;
(b)to ensure that the provisions of the Act, rules and regulations are being complied with;
(c)to investigate into the complaints received from investors, other portfolio managers or any other person on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the portfolio manager; and
(d)to investigate suo motu in the interest of securities market or investors' interest into the affairs of the portfolio manager.
36. (1) Before undertaking an inspection under regulation 35, the Board shall give a reasonable
Page 24 of 62
notice to the portfolio manager.
(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may by an order in writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the portfolio manager be taken up without such notice.
(3)During the course of inspection the portfolio manager against whom an inspection is being carried out shall be bound to discharge his obligations as provided under regulation 37.
37.(1) It shall be the duty of every director, partner, officer and employee of the portfolio manager who is being inspected to produce to the inspecting authority such books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control and furnish him with the statements and information relating to his activities as a portfolio manager within such time as the inspecting authority may require.
(2)The portfolio manager shall allow the inspecting authority to have a reasonable access to the premises occupied by such portfolio manager or by any other person, on his behalf and also extend reasonable facility for examining any books, records, documents and computer data in the possession of the portfolio manager or any such other person and also provide copies of documents or other material which in the opinion of the inspecting authority are relevant for the purposes of the inspection.
(3)The inspecting authority shall in the course of inspection, be entitled to examine or record statements of any principal officer, director, partner and employee of the portfolio manager.
(4)It shall be the duty of every director, partner, officer or employee of the portfolio manager to give to the inspecting authority all assistance in connection with the inspection which the portfolio manager may reasonably be expected to give.
38. The inspecting authority shall, as soon as possible, submit an inspection report to the Board.
Page 25 of 62
39.The Board or the Chairman shall after consideration of inspection or investigation report take such action as the Board or Chairman may deem fit and appropriate including action under Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.
40.The Board may appoint a qualified auditor to investigate into the books of account or the affairs of the portfolio manager:
Provided that the auditor so appointed shall have the same powers of the inspecting authority as are mentioned in regulation 35 and the obligation of the portfolio manager and his employees in regulation 37 shall be applicable to the investigation under this regulation.
41.A portfolio manager who contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, rules or regulations framed thereunder shall be liable for one or more action specified therein including the action under Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.
42.(1) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 1993, shall stand repealed from the date on which these regulations come into force.
Page 26 of 62
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal, —
(a)anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken including registration or approval granted, fees collected, registration or approval, suspended or cancelled, any adjudication, enquiry or investigation commenced or show-cause notice issued under the repealed regulations, prior to such repeal, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of these regulations;
(b)any application made to the Board under the repealed regulations, prior to such repeal, and pending before it shall be deemed to have been made under the corresponding provisions of these regulations;
(c)the previous operation of the repealed regulations or anything duly done or suffered thereunder, any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under the repealed regulations, any penalty, incurred in respect of any violation committed against the repealed regulations, or any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty as aforesaid, shall remain unaffected as if the repealed regulations has never been repealed;
42A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any
1Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17-04-2020.
Page 27 of 62
of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis.
1.(1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014.
(2)They shall come into force on the date of their notification in the Official Gazette.
2.(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions shall be construed accordingly,–
(a)“Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);
1
(b)“associate” of any person 1[“means “associate company” as defined under the Companies Act, 2013 or under the applicable accounting standards and shall also include”,] –
(i)any person controlled, directly or indirectly, by the said person;
(ii)any person who controls, directly or indirectly, the said person;
(iii)where the said person is a company or a body corporate, any person(s) who is designated as promoter(s) of the company or body corporate and any other company or body corporate with the same promoter(s);
(iv)where the said person is an individual, any relative of the individual;
(v)2[***]
(vi)3[***]
(vii)4[***]
(viii)5[***]
(c)"Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 of the Act;
(d)“body corporate” shall have the meaning assigned to it in or under sub- section (11) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013;
(e)“bonus issue” means additional units allotted to the unit holders, as on the record date fixed for the said purpose, without any cost to the unit holder;
(f)“certificate” means a certificate of registration granted under these regulations;
(g)"change in control", means,–
1Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to which it read as ‘“associate” of any person includes’.
2Sub clause (v) omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to which it read as ‘where the said person is a company or a body corporate or an LLP, its group companies;’
3Sub clause (vi) omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to which it read as ‘companies or LLPs under the same management;’
4Sub clause (vii) omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to which it read as ‘where the said person is an InvIT, related parties to the InvIT;’
5Sub clause (viii) omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to which it read as ‘any company or LLP or body corporate in which the person or its director(s) or partner(s) holds, either individually or collectively, more than fifteen percent of its paid-up equity share capital or partnership interest, as the case may be;’
2
(i)In case of a company or body corporate, change in control where 'control' shall have the meaning as provided in sub-section (27) of Section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013;
(ii)in any other case, change in the controlling interest.
Explanation.─ For the purpose of sub-clause (ii), the expression “controlling interest” means an interest, whether direct or indirect, to the extent of more than fifty percent of voting rights or interest;
(h)“company” means a company as defined under sub-section (20) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013;
(i)"completed and revenue generating project" means an infrastructure project, which prior to the date of its acquisition by, or transfer to, the InvIT, satisfies the following conditions,–
(i)the infrastructure project has achieved the commercial operations date as defined under the relevant project agreement including concession agreement, power purchase agreement or any other agreement of a similar nature entered into in relation to the operation of the project or in any agreement entered into with the lenders;
(ii)the infrastructure project has received all the requisite approvals and certifications for commencing operations; and
(iii)the infrastructure project has been generating revenue from operations for a period of not less than one year;
(j)“concession agreement” means an agreement entered into by a person with a concessioning authority for the purpose of implementation of the project as provided in the agreement;
(k)“concessioning authority” means the public sector concessioning authority in PPP projects;
(l)“credit rating agency” means a credit rating agency registered with the Board under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999;
(m)“custodian” means a person registered with the Board under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Custodian of Securities) Regulations, 1996;
3
6 [“(ma) “debt securities” shall be defined under Regulation 2(1)(e) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008;”]
(n)“designated stock exchange” means a recognised stock exchange in which units of an InvIT are listed or proposed to be listed and which is chosen by the InvIT as a designated stock exchange for the purpose of a particular issue of the units of the InvIT under these regulations:
Provided that where one or more of such stock exchanges have nationwide trading terminals, the InvIT shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange:
Provided further that the InvIT may choose a different recognised stock exchange as a designated stock exchange for any subsequent issue of units of the InvIT under these regulations;
(o)"eligible infrastructure project" means an infrastructure project which, prior to the date of its acquisition by, or transfer to, the InvIT, satisfies the following conditions,–
(i)For PPP projects,–
(1)the Infrastructure Project is 7[a] completed and revenue generating [project]8, or
9[“(1a) the Infrastructure Project, which has achieved commercial operations date and does not have the track record of revenue from operations for a period of not less than one year, or”]
(2)the Infrastructure Project is a pre-COD project;
(ii)In non-PPP projects, the infrastructure project has received all the requisite approvals and certifications for commencing construction of the project;
6Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
7Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
8Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
9Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
4
(p)"follow–on offer” means offer of units of an InvIT to the public for subscription and includes an offer for sale of InvIT units by an existing unit holder to the public;
(q)10[***]
(r)“form” means any of the forms set out in the Schedule I;
11[(ra) general purposes" include such identified purposes for which no specific amount is allocated or any amount so specified towards general purpose or any such purpose by whatever name called, in the draft offer document filed with the Board:
Provided that any issue related expenses shall not be considered as a part of general purpose merely because no specific amount has been allocated for such expenses in the draft offer document filed with the Board;”]
(s)“governing board” in case of an LLP shall mean a group of members assigned by the LLP to act in a manner similar to the board of directors in case of a company;
12 [(sa) “holdco” or “holding company” means a company or LLP,-
(i)in which InvIT holds or proposes to hold controlling interest and not less than fifty one per cent of the equity share capital or interest and which in turn has made investments in other SPV(s), which ultimately hold the infrastructure assets;
(ii)which is not engaged in any other activity other than holding of the underlying SPV(s), holding of infrastructure projects and any other activities pertaining to and incidental to such holdings;”]
10Sub clause (q) omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to omission it read as ‘“follow-on offer document” means any document by which follow-on offer is made to the public by an InvIT;’
11Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
12Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
5
(t)“infrastructure” includes all infrastructure sub-sectors as defined vide notification of the Ministry of Finance dated October 07, 2013 and shall include any amendments or additions made thereof;
(u)"infrastructure project" means any project in infrastructure sector;
13 [(ua) “initial offer” means the first offer of units of an InvIT including an offer for
sale of the InvIT units by an existing unit holder whether through public issue or private placement;”]
(v)“initial 14 [public] offer” means the first offer of units of an InvIT to the public for subscription and includes an offer for sale of the InvIT units by an existing unit holder to the public;
(w)15[***]
(x)“infrastructure developer” in case of PPP projects shall mean the lead member of the concessionaire SPV;
(y)“inspecting officer” means any one or more person appointed by the Board to exercise powers conferred under Chapter V;
16[(ya) “institutional investor” means -
(i)a qualified institutional buyer; or
(ii)family trust or systematically important NBFCs registered with Reserve Bank of India or intermediaries registered with the Board, all with net-worth of more than five hundred crore rupees, as per the last audited financial statements;]
(z)“investment management agreement” means an agreement between the trustee and the investment manager which lays down the roles and responsibilities of the investment manager towards the InvIT;
(za) “InvIT” or 'Infrastructure Investment Trust' shall mean the trust registered as such under these regulations;
13Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
14Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f 30.11.2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
15Sub clause (w) omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to which it read as “initial offer document” means any document by which initial offer is made to the public by an InvIT;
16Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
6
(zb)
"InvIT assets” means assets owned by the InvIT, whether directly or through
 
a 17 [holdco and/ or] SPV, and includes all rights, interests and benefits
 
arising from and incidental to ownership of such assets;
(zc)
“Lead member” means the lead member of the Concessionaire SPV for
 
PPP projects as defined in the project documents;
(zd)
“listed InvIT” means an InvIT whose units are listed on a recognized stock
 
exchange;
(ze)
"LLP" means a limited liability partnership as defined under the Limited
 
Liability Partnership Act, 2008;
(zf)
“investment manager” means a company or LLP or body corporate which
 
manages assets and investments of the InvIT and undertakes activities of
 
the InvIT as specified under regulation 10;
(zg)
"NAV" or "net asset value” means the value of the InvIT 18[“ assets reduced
 
by the external debt”] divided by the number of outstanding units as on a
 
particular date;
(zh)
“net worth” in relation to a company or a body corporate shall have the
 
meaning assigned to it under sub-section (57) of section 2 of the Companies
 
Act, 2013;.
(zi)
“non-PPP project” means an infrastructure project that is not a PPP project;
(zj)
"offer document" means any document described or issued as an offer
 
document including any notice, circular, advertisement or other document
 
inviting offers 19[through a public issue ]for the subscription or purchase of
 
units of the 20[***]InvIT and includes initial 21[public]offer document, follow-
 
on offer document 22[“, letter of offer in case of rights issue] and any other
 
offer document as may be specified by the Board;
17Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
18Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
19Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to its substitution it was read as ‘from the public’.
20Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to its omission it read as ‘publically offered’.
21Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
22Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
7
(zk) “parties to the InvIT” shall include the sponsor(s), investment manager, project manager 23[(s)] and the trustee;
(zl) “placement memorandum” means any document through which private placement of units of the InvIT is made;
(zm) “PPP project” means an infrastructure project undertaken on a Public- Private Partnership basis between a public concessioning authority and a private SPV concessionaire selected on the basis of open competitive bidding or on the basis of an MoU with the relevant authorities;
(zn) “pre-COD project” means an infrastructure project which,–
(i)has not achieved commercial operation date as defined under the relevant project agreements including the concession agreement, power purchase agreement or any other agreement of a similar nature entered into in relation to the operation of a project or any agreement entered into with the lenders; and
(ii)has,–
(1)achieved completion of at least fifty per cent. of the construction of the infrastructure project as certified by an independent engineer of such project; or
(2)expended not less than fifty per cent. of the total capital cost set forth in the financial package of the relevant project agreement;
(zo) “preferential issue” means an issue of units by a listed InvIT to any select person or group of persons on a private placement basis and does not include an offer of units made through a public issue, rights issue, bonus issue, qualified institutions placement or any other issue as may be specified by the Board;
24[(zoa) “private placement” means an issue of units by an InvIT to any select person or group of persons and does not include an offer of units made through a public issue;
(zob)
“project implementation agreement" or "project management agreement”
 
means an agreement between the project manager, the concessionaire
23Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
24Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
8
SPV and the trustee which sets out obligations of the project manager with respect to execution of the project 25[and/or management]:
Provided that in case of PPP projects, such obligations shall be in addition to the responsibilities as under the concession agreement or any such
agreement entered into with the concessioning authority;”]
(zp) “project manager” means 26[a company or LLP or a body corporate] designated as the project manager by the InvIT, responsible for achieving execution 27[/management] of the project as specified under regulation 11 and in case of PPP projects, shall mean the entity responsible for such execution and achievement of project milestones in accordance with the concession agreement or any other relevant project document;
(zq) “public” for the purposes of offer and listing of units means any person other than related party of the InvIT or any other person as may be specified by the Board:
Provided that in case any related party to the InvIT is a qualified institutional buyer, such person shall be included under the term 'public';
(zr) “public issue” means issue of units by a 28[***] InvIT to the public and includes initial 29[public] offer and follow-on offer or any other issue made to the public as may be specified by the Board;
(zs) “qualified Institutional buyer” shall have the meaning assigned to it under clause (zd) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue Of Capital And Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009;
(zt) “qualified Institutions placement” means allotment of units by a listed InvIT to qualified institutional buyers on private placement basis in terms of these regulations;
25Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
26Inserted ibid in place of the words “the person”.
27Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
28Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the omission the clause read as “public issue” means issue of units by a publically offered InvIT to the public and includes initial offer and follow-on offer or any other issue made to the public as may be specified by the Board;
29Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
9
(zu) “recognised stock exchange” means any stock exchange which is recognised under section 4 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956);
(zv) 30[“related parties”] shall 31[be defined under the Companies Act, 2013 or under the applicable accounting standards and shall also] include,–
(i)parties to the InvIT;
(ii)32[***]
(iii)33[***]promoters, directors and partners of the persons mentioned in clause (i)34[***];
(zw) “rights issue” means an offer of units by a listed InvIT to the unit holders of the InvIT as on the record date fixed for the said purpose;
(zx) “right-of-first-refusal” or "ROFR" means the right given to the InvIT by a person to enter into a transaction with it before the person is entitled to enter that transaction with any other party;
(zy)
"SPV" or "special purpose vehicle" means any company or LLP,–
(i)in which 35[either] the InvIT 36[or the holdco] holds or proposes to hold controlling interest and not less than fifty [37one] per cent. of the equity share capital or interest:
Provided that in case of PPP projects where such acquiring or holding is disallowed by government or regulatory provisions under the concession agreement or such other agreement, this clause
30Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
31Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
32Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the omission the clause read as any unit holder holding, directly or indirectly, more than twenty per cent. of the units of the InvIT
33Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the omission the clause read as associates, promoters, directors and partners of the persons mentioned in clause (i) and (ii);
34Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the omission the clause read as associates, promoters, directors and partners of the persons mentioned in clause (i) and (ii);
35Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
36Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
37Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
10
shall not apply and shall be subject to provisions under proviso to sub-regulation (3) of regulation 12;
(ii)which holds not less than ninety per cent. of its assets directly in infrastructure projects and does not invest in other SPVs; and
(iii)which is not 38[***] engaged in any other activity other than activities pertaining to and incidental to the underlying infrastructure projects;
(zz)“sponsor” means any company or LLP or body corporate which sets up the
InvIT and is designated as such at the time of application made to the Board 39[***];
(zza)
‘strategic investor’ means,–
 
a.
an infrastructure finance company registered with Reserve Bank of
 
 
India as a Non Banking Financial Company;
 
b.
a Scheduled Commercial Bank;
 
c.
40[a multilateral and/or bilateral development financial institution];
 
d.
a systemically important Non Banking Financial Companies
 
 
registered with Reserve Bank of India;
 
e.
a foreign portfolio investors,
 
41[who invest, either jointly or severally,] not less than five per cent. of the
 
total offer size of the InvIT or such amount as may be specified by the Board
 
from time to time 42[, subject to the compliance with the applicable
 
provisions, if any, of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the
 
rules or regulations or guidelines made thereunder];
(zzb)
“trustee” means a person who holds the InvIT assets in trust for the benefit
 
of the unit holders, in accordance with these regulations;
(zzc)
"under-construction project" means an infrastructure project whether PPP
 
or non-PPP, which has 43[either] not achieved commercial operation date
38Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the omission it read as which is not be engaged in any other activity other than activities pertaining to and incidental to the underlying infrastructure projects;
39Words “and in case of PPP projects, shall mean the infrastructure developer or a special purpose vehicle holding concession agreement”, omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
40Substituted ibid for the words “an international multilateral financial institution”.
41Substituted for the words “who together invest” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017.
42Inserted ibid.
43Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
11
 
as defined under the relevant project agreements including the concession
 
agreement, power purchase agreement or any other agreement of a similar
 
nature entered into in relation to the operation of a project or in any
 
agreement entered into with the lenders 44[or has achieved commercial
 
operation date and does not have the track record of revenue from
 
operations for a period of not less than one year];
(zzd)
“unit” means beneficial interest of the InvIT;
(zze)
“unit holder” means any person who owns units of the InvIT;
(zzf)
45[“valuer” means any person who is a “registered valuer” under section 247
 
of the Companies Act, 2013 or as specified by the Board from time to time.]
44Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
45Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017. Prior to the substitution, the definition of the term “valuer” read as follows:
“valuer” means any person 45[(s)] who is a "registered valuer" under section 247 of the Companies Act, 2013 45[or as defined hereunder] and who has 45[/have] been appointed by the investment manager to undertake 45[both financial and technical] valuation of the InvIT assets:
Provided that:-
45[(a) a valuer in respect of financial valuation means,-
(i)a chartered accountant, company secretary or cost accountant who is in whole-time practice, or retired member of Indian Corporate Law Service or any person holding equivalent Indian or foreign qualification as the Ministry of Corporate Affairs may recognize by an order:
Provided that such foreign qualification is acquired by Indian citizen.
(ii)a Merchant Banker registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India, and who has in his employment person(s) having qualifications prescribed under sub-sub- clause (i) above to carry out valuation by such qualified persons.
(b)a valuer in respect of technical asset valuation, means members of the following institutions for specific asset categories,-
(i)Institution of Valuers;
(ii)Institution of Surveyors (Valuation Branch);
(iii)Institution of Government Approved Valuers;
(iv)Practicing Valuers Association of India;
(v)Centre for Valuation Studies, Research and Training;
(vi)Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, UK;
(vii)American Society of Appraisers, United States;
(viii)Appraisal Institute, United States;
(ix)Institute of Engineers;
12
(zzg)
46["value of 47[the] InvIT assets"] means 48[49[value of the assets of the
 
InvIT]] as assessed by the valuer based on value of the infrastructure and
 
other assets owned by the InvIT, whether directly or through 50[holdco
 
and/or] SPV 51[***]
(2)The words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations, but defined in the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, (42 of 1956), the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), or any rules or regulations made thereunder, shall have the same meanings respectively assigned to them in those Acts, rules or regulations or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto, as the case may be.
(x)Council of Architecture or the Indian Institute of Architects: Provided that, the persons referred to in sub-sub-clause (i) and qualified person referred to in sub-sub-clause (ii) of sub-clause (a) above, shall have not less than five years continuous experience after acquiring membership of respective institutions:
Provided further that, persons referred to in sub-sub-clauses (i) to (x) of sub-clause (b) above, shall have a minimum working experience of five years in relevant areas of valuation practice and in relation to relevant asset value and categories; and be citizens of India.”
46Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as ‘value of InvIT means value of InvIT assets as assessed by the valuer based on value of the infrastructure and other assets owned by the InvIT, whether directly or through SPV excluding any debtor liabilities thereof.
47 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
48Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as ‘value of InvIT means value of InvIT assets as assessed by the valuer based on value of the infrastructure and other assets owned by the InvIT, whether directly or through SPV excluding any debtor liabilities thereof.
49Substituted for the words “value of InvIT assets” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
3.(1) No person shall act as an InvIT unless it has obtained a certificate of registration from the Board under these regulations.
(2)An application for grant of certificate of registration as InvIT shall be made by the sponsor 52[on behalf of the trust] in Form A as specified in the Schedule I and shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as specified in Schedule II.
(3)The Board may, in order to protect the interests of investors, appoint any person to take charge of records, documents of the 53[trust] and for this purpose, also determine the terms and conditions of such an appointment.
(4)The Board shall take into account requirements as specified in these regulations for the purpose of considering grant of registration.
4.(1) For the purpose of the grant of certificate to 54[a trust], the Board shall consider all matters relevant to the activities as an InvIT.
(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions, the Board shall consider the following, mandatory requirements namely,–
(a)the applicant is 55[the sponsor on behalf of the] trust and the instrument of trust is in the form of a deed duly registered in India under the provisions of the Registration Act, 1908;
(b)the trust deed has its main objective as undertaking activity of InvIT in accordance with these regulations and includes responsibilities of the trustee in accordance with regulation 9;
52Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
53Substituted for the word “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
54Substituted ibid for the words “an applicant”.
55Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as the applicant is ‘a’ trust and the instrument of trust is in the form of a deed duly registered in India under the provisions of the Registration Act, 1908;
14
(c)persons have been designated as sponsor(s), investment manager and trustee under these regulations and all such persons are separate entities;
(d)with regard to sponsor(s) ,–
(i)56[each sponsor shall be clearly identified in the application of registration to the Board and in the offer document/ placement memorandum, as applicable];
(ii)each sponsor has,–
(1)a net worth of not less than Rs. 100 crore if it is a body corporate or a company; or
(2)net tangible assets of value not less than Rs 100 crore in case it is a limited liability partnership:57[***]
(iii)Whether the sponsor or its associate has a sound track record in development of infrastructure or fund management in the infrastructure sector.
Explanation.- For the purpose of this clause, ‘sound track record’ means experience of at least 5 years and where the sponsor is a developer, at least two projects of the sponsor have been completed;
(e)with regard to the investment manager,-
(i)the investment manager has a net worth of not less than rupees ten crore if the investment manager is a body corporate or a company or net tangible assets of value not less than ten crore rupees in case the investment manager is a limited liability partnership;
(ii)58[the investment manager has not less than five years of experience in fund management or advisory
services or development in the infrastructure sector or the combined experience of the directors/partners/employees of the investment manager in fund management or advisory
56 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as ‘there are not more than 3 sponsors’.
57Omitted “Provided that in case of PPP projects, where the sponsor is the SPV, the net worth or net tangible assets shall be as defined in the eligibility criteria of the project documents;” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
58Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f 02.03.2020. Prior to the substitution it read as ‘the investment manager has not less than five years experience in fund management or advisory services or development in the infrastructure sector.’
15
services or development in the infrastructure sector is not less than 30 years:
Provided that for computing the combined experience, only the experience of the directors/partners/employees with more than 5 years of experience in fund management or advisory services or development in the infrastructure sector shall be considered.]
(iii)the investment manager has not less than two employees who have at least five years experience each, in fund management or advisory services or development in the infrastructure sector;
(iv)the investment manager has not less than one employee who has at least five years experience in the relevant sub-sector(s) in which the InvIT has invested or proposes to invest;
(v)the investment manager has not less than half of its directors in case of a company or members of the governing board in case of an LLP as independent and not directors or members of the governing board 59[of an Investment Manager] of another InvIT;
(vi)the investment manager has an office in India from where the operations pertaining to the InvIT is proposed to be conducted;
(vii)the investment manager has entered into an investment management agreement with the trustee which provides for the responsibilities of the investment manager in accordance with regulation 10;
(f)
60[ the project manager has been identified and shall be appointed
 
in terms of the project implementation/ management agreement:
59 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
60Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as the project implementation agreement has been entered into between the project manager, the concessionaire SPV and the trustee acting on behalf of the InvIT which sets out obligations of the project manager with respect to execution of the project:
Provided that in case of PPP projects, such obligations shall be in accordance with the concession agreement or any such agreement entered into with the concessioning authority;
16
Provided that the project implementation agreement/ management agreement shall be submitted along with the draft offer document/ or the placement memorandum;
(g)with regard to the trustee,–
(i)the trustee is registered with the Board under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993 and is not an associate of the sponsor(s) or 61[investment] manager; and
(ii)the trustee has such wherewithal with respect to infrastructure, personnel, etc. to the satisfaction of the Board and in accordance with circulars or guidelines as may be specified by the Board;
(h)no unit holder of the InvIT enjoys 62[superior] voting or any other rights over another unit holder 63[and there shall not be multiple classes of units of InvITs:
Notwithstanding the above, subordinate units may be issued only to the sponsors and its associates, where such subordinate units shall carry only inferior voting or any other rights compared to other units;]
(i)64[***]
(j)the applicant has clearly described at the time of registration, details pertaining to proposed activities of the InvIT;
(k)the 65[InvIT and parties to the InvIT] are fit and proper persons based on the criteria as specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008;
61 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
62Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as no unit holder of the InvIT enjoys preferential voting or any other rights over another unit holder;
63Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
64Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as here shall not be multiple classes of units of InvITs;
65Substituted for the words “applicant, sponsor(s), investment manager, project manager(s) and trusts” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
17
5.(1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish any such information or clarification as may be required by it for the purpose of processing of the application.
(2)The Board, if it so desires, may require the applicant or its authorized representative(s) to appear before the Board for personal representation in connection with the grant of certificate.
6.(1) The Board on being satisfied that the applicant fulfils, the requirements specified in regulation 4 shall send intimation to the applicant and on receipt of the payment of registration fees as specified in Schedule II, grant certificate of registration in Form B under Schedule I:
Provided that the Board may grant in-principle approval to the 68[trust], where it deems fit and on satisfaction of all requirements as specified in regulation 4, grant final registration to the 69[trust].
(2)The registration may be granted with such conditions as may be deemed appropriate by the Board.
7.The certificate granted under regulation 6 shall, inter-alia, be subject to the following conditions,-
66Substituted for the words “applicant or any related party” by the SEBI (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017.
67Substituted ibid for the words “applicant or any related party”.
68Substituted for the word “applicants” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
69Substituted ibid for the word “applicant”.
18
(a)the InvIT shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations;
(b)the InvIT shall forthwith inform the Board in writing, if any information or particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be false or misleading in any material particular or if there is any material change in the information already submitted;
(c)The InvIT and parties to the InvIT shall satisfy with the conditions specified in regulation 4 at all times;
(d)The InvIT and parties to the InvIT shall comply, at all times, with the Code of conduct as specified in the Schedule VI, wherever applicable.
8.(1) After considering an application made under regulation 3, if the Board is of the opinion that a certificate should not be granted to the 70[trust], it may reject the application after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
9.(1) The trustee shall hold the InvIT assets in the name of the InvIT for the benefit of the unit holders in accordance with the trust deed and these regulations.
(2)The trustee shall enter into an investment management agreement with the investment manager on behalf of the InvIT.
(3)The trustee shall oversee activities of the investment manager in the
interest of the unit holders, ensure that the investment manager
70Substituted for the word “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
19
complies with regulation 10 and shall obtain compliance certificate from the investment manager, in the form as may be specified, on a quarterly basis.
(4)The trustee shall oversee activities of the project manager 71[***]with respect to compliance with these regulations and the 72[project implementation agreement/] project management agreement and shall obtain compliance certificate from the Project manager, in the form as may be specified, on a quarterly basis.
(5)The trustee shall ensure that the investment manager complies with reporting and disclosures requirements in accordance with these regulations and in case of any delay or discrepancy, require the investment manager to rectify the same on an urgent basis.
(6)The trustee shall review the transactions carried out between the investment manager and its associates and where the investment manager has advised that there may be a conflict of interest, shall obtain confirmation from a practising chartered accountant 73[or valuer, as applicable,] that such transaction is on arm's length basis.
(7)The trustee shall periodically review the status of unit holders' complaints and their redressal undertaken by the investment manager.
(8)The trustee shall make distributions and ensure that investment manager makes timely declaration of distributions to the unit holders in accordance with sub-regulations (6),(7) and (8) of regulation 18.
(9)The trustee may require the investment manager to set up such systems and procedures and submit such reports to the trustees, as may be necessary for effective monitoring of the functioning of the InvIT.
(10)The trustee shall ensure that subscription amount is kept in a separate bank account in name of the InvIT and is only utilized for adjustment against allotment of units or refund of money to the applicants till the time such units are listed.
71Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as (4) The trustee shall oversee activities of the project manager ‘other than that relating with revenue streams from the projects’ with respect to compliance with these regulations and the project management agreement and shall obtain compliance certificate from the Project manager, in the form as may be specified, on a quarterly basis.
72Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
73Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
20
(11)The trustee shall ensure that the remuneration of the valuer is not be linked to or based on the value of the assets being valued.
(12)The trustee shall ensure that the investment manager convenes meetings of the unit holders in accordance with these regulations and oversee the voting by unit holders.
(13)The trustee shall ensure that the investment manager convenes meetings of unit holders not less than once every year and the period between such meetings shall not exceed fifteen months.
(14)The trustee may take up with the Board or with the designated stock exchange, as may be applicable, any matter which has been approved in any meeting of unit holders, if the matter requires such action.
(15)In case of any change in investment manager due to removal or otherwise,–
a.prior to such change, the trustee shall obtain approval from unit holders in accordance with regulation 22 and from the Board;
b.the trustee shall appoint the new investment manager within three months from the date of termination of the earlier investment management agreement;
c.the previous investment manager shall continue to act as such at the discretion of trustee till such time as new investment manager is appointed;
d.the trustee shall ensure that the new investment manager shall stand substituted as a party in all the documents to which the earlier investment manager was a party;
e.the trustee shall ensure that the earlier investment manager continues to be liable for all its acts of omissions and commissions notwithstanding such termination.
(16)In case of any change in the project manager due to removal or otherwise,–
a.the trustee shall appoint the new project manager within three months from the date of termination of the earlier 74[project implementation agreement/] project management agreement;
74Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
21
b.the trustee may, either suo motu or based on the advice of the concessioning authority appoint an administrator in connection with a infrastructure project(s) for such term and on such conditions as it deems fit;
c.the previous project manager shall continue to act as such at the discretion of trustee till such time as new project manager is appointed;
d.all costs and expenses in this regard will be borne by the new project manager;
e.the trustee shall ensure that the new project manager shall stand substituted as a party in all the documents to which the earlier project manager was a party;
f.the trustee shall ensure that the earlier project manager continues to be liable for all its acts of omissions and commissions for the period during which it served as the project manager, notwithstanding such termination.
(17)The trustee shall obtain prior approval from the unit holders in accordance with regulation 22 and from the Board in case of change in control of the investment manager.
(18)In case of change in control of the project manager in a PPP project, the trustee shall ensure that written consent of the concessioning authority is obtained in terms of the concession agreement prior to such change, where applicable.
(19)The trustee75 [of the InvIT] shall not invest in units of the InvIT in which it is designated as the trustee.
(20)The trustee shall ensure that the activity of the InvIT is being operated in accordance with the provisions of the trust deed, these regulations and the offer document or placement memorandum and if any discrepancy is noticed, shall inform the same to the Board immediately in writing.
(21)The trustee shall provide to the Board and to the designated stock exchanges, where applicable, such information as may be sought by the
75Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as the trustee or its associates shall not invest in units of the InvIT in which it is designated as the trustee.
22
Board or by the designated stock exchanges pertaining to the activity of the InvIT.
10.(1) The investment manager shall make the investment decisions with respect to the underlying assets or projects of the InvIT including any further investment or divestment of the assets.
(2)The investment manager shall oversee activities of the project manager with respect to 76[compliance with these regulations] and the 77[project implementation agreement/] project management agreement and shall obtain compliance certificate from the project manager, in the form as may be specified, on a quarterly basis.
(3)The investment manager shall ensure that the infrastructure assets of the InvIT or 78[holdco or] SPV have proper legal titles, if applicable, and that all the material contracts entered into on behalf of InvIT or SPV are legal, valid, binding and enforceable by and on behalf of the InvIT or SPV.
(4)The investment manager shall ensure that the investments made by the InvIT are in accordance with the investment conditions specified in regulation 18 and in accordance with the investment strategy of the InvIT.
(5)The investment manager, in consultation with trustee, shall appoint the valuer(s), auditor, registrar and transfer agent, merchant banker, custodian and any other intermediary or service provider or agent as may be applicable with respect to activities pertaining to the InvIT in a timely manner and in accordance with these regulations.
76Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as the investment manager shall oversee activities of the project manager with respect to ‘revenue streams from the projects’ and the project management agreement and shall obtain compliance certificate from the project manager, in the form as may be specified, on a quarterly basis.
77Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
78Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
23
(6)The investment manager shall appoint an auditor for a period of not more than five consecutive years:
Provided that the auditor, not being an individual, may be reappointed for a period of another five consecutive years, subject to approval of unit- holders in the annual meeting in accordance with regulation 22.
(7)The investment manager shall arrange for adequate insurance coverage for the 79[InvIT assets]:
Provided that this shall not apply in case the 80[InvIT] assets are required to be insured by any other person under any agreement including a concession agreement or under any Act or regulations or circulars or guidelines of any concessioning authority or government or local body:
Provided further that in 81[case any of the InvIT assets are held] by 82[holdco or]SPV, the investment manager shall ensure that assets held by the 83[holdco or] SPV are adequately insured.
(8)The investment manager shall ensure that it has adequate infrastructure and sufficient key personnel with adequate experience and qualification to undertake management of the InvIT at all times.
(9)The investment manager 84[and the merchant banker(s)] shall be responsible for all activities pertaining to issue of units and listing of units of the InvIT including,–
a.filing of placement memorandum with the Board;
b.filing the 85[of the] offer document with the Board and the exchanges within the prescribed time period;
c.dealing with all matters up to allotment of units to the unit holders;
79Substituted for the words “assets of the InvIT” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
80Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
81Substituted ibid for the words “case of assets held”.
82Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
83Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
84Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
85Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as filing ‘the draft and final’ offer document with the Board and the exchanges within the prescribed time period;
24
d. obtaining in-principle approval 86[and final listing and trading approvals] from the designated stock exchanges;
e.dealing with all matters relating to issue and listing of the units of the InvIT as specified under Chapter IV and any guidelines as may be issued by the Board in this regard.
(10)The investment manager 87[and the merchant bankers(s)], shall ensure that disclosures made in the offer document or placement memorandum contains material, true, correct and adequate disclosures and are in accordance with these regulations and guidelines or circulars issued hereunder.
(11)The investment manager shall declare distributions to the unit holders in accordance with sub-regulation (6) and (7) of regulation 18.
(12)The investment manager shall review the transactions carried out between the project manager and its associates and where the project manager has advised that there may be a conflict of interest, shall obtain confirmation from the 88[practicing chartered accountant or the valuer, as applicable,] that such transaction is on arm's length basis.
(13)The investment manager shall ensure adequate and timely redressal of all unit holders' grievances pertaining to activities of the InvIT.
(14)The investment manager shall ensure that the disclosures or reporting to the unit holders, Board, trustees and designated stock exchanges, are in accordance with these regulations and guidelines or circulars issued hereunder.
(15)The investment manager shall provide to the Board and to the designated stock exchanges, where applicable, any such information as may be sought by the Board or the designated stock exchanges pertaining to the activities of the InvIT.
(16)The investment manager or its associates shall not obtain any commission or rebate or any other remuneration, by whatever name called, arising out of transactions pertaining to the InvIT other than as
86Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.
87Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
88Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as the investment manager shall review the transactions carried out between the project manager and its associates and where the project manager has advised that there may be a conflict of interest, shall obtain confirmation from the ‘auditor’ that such transaction is on arm's length basis.
25
specified in the offer document or placement memorandum or any other document as may be specified by the Board for the purpose of issue of units.
(17)The investment manager shall ensure that the valuation of the InvIT assets is done by the valuer(s) in accordance with regulation 21.
(18)The investment manager shall submit to the trustee,-
a.quarterly reports on the activities of the InvIT including receipts for all funds received by it and for all payments made, position on compliance with these regulations, specifically compliance with regulations 18, 19 and 20, performance report, status of development of under-construction projects, within thirty days of end of such quarter;
b.valuation reports as required under these regulations within fifteen days of the receipt of the valuation report from the valuer;
c.decision to acquire or sell or develop or bid for any asset or project or expand existing completed assets or projects along with rationale for the same;
d.details of any action which requires approval from the unit holders as maybe required under the regulations;
e.details of any other material fact including change in its directors, change in its shareholding, any legal proceedings that may have a significant bearing on the activity of the InvIT, within seven working days of such action.
(19)In case the investment manager fails to timely submit to the trustee information or reports as specified under sub-regulation (18) above or sub-regulation (9) of regulation 9, the trustee shall intimate the same to the Board and the Board may take action, as it deems fit.
(20)The investment manager shall coordinate with trustee, as may be necessary, with respect to operations of the InvIT.
(21)The investment manager shall ensure that computation and declaration of NAV of the InvIT based on the valuation done by the valuer 89[, shall be disclosed to the stock exchange(s),] not later than fifteen days from the date of valuation.
89Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
26
(22)The investment manager shall ensure that the audit of accounts of the InvIT by the auditor is done not less 90[once in a year] and such report is submitted to the 91[***] stock exchange92[s] within 93[sixty] days of end of financial year ending March 31st 94[***].
(23)The investment manager may appoint a custodian in order to provide such custodial services as may be authorised by the trustees.
(24)The investment manager shall place before its board of directors in case of company or the governing board in case of an LLP a report on activity and performance of the InvIT at least once every quarter within thirty days of end of every quarter.
(25)The investment manager shall designate an employee or director as the compliance officer for monitoring of compliance with these regulations and guidelines or circulars issued hereunder and intimating the Board in case of any non-compliance.
(26)The investment manager shall convene meetings of the unit holders in accordance with regulation 22 and maintain records pertaining to the meetings in accordance with regulation 26.
(27)The investment manager shall ensure that all activities of the intermediaries or agents or service providers appointed by the investment manager are in accordance with these regulations and guidelines or circulars issued hereunder.
90Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as the investment manager shall ensure that the audit of accounts of the InvIT by the auditor is done not less than twice annually and such report is submitted to the designated stock exchange within forty five days of end of financial year ending March 31st and half-year ending September 30th.
91Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as the investment manager shall ensure that the audit of accounts of the InvIT by the auditor is done not less than twice annually and such report is submitted to the designated stock exchange within forty five days of end of financial year ending March 31st and half-year ending September 30th.
92Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
93Substituted for the words “forty five” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
94Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as the investment manager shall ensure that the audit of accounts of the InvIT by the auditor is done not less than twice annually and such report is submitted to the designated stock exchange within forty five days of end of financial year ending March 31st and half-year ending September 30th.
11.(1) The project manager shall undertake operations and management of the InvIT assets including making arrangements for the appropriate maintenance, as may be applicable, either directly or through the appointment and supervision of appropriate agents and as required under any project agreement including a concession agreement in the case of a PPP project.
(2)If the InvIT invests in under construction projects, the project manager shall,–
(a)undertake the operations and management of the projects, either directly or through appropriate agents;
(b)oversee the progress of development, approval status and other aspects of the project upto its completion, in case of appointment of agents for the purpose of execution.
12.(1) The sponsor(s) shall set up the InvIT and appoint the trustees of the InvIT.
(2)The sponsor(s) shall transfer or undertake to transfer to the InvIT, its entire shareholding or interest 96[and rights] in the 97[holdco and/ or] SPV or ownership of the infrastructure projects, subject to a binding agreement and adequate disclosures in the offer document or placement memorandum, prior to allotment of units of the InvIT:
95Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
96Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
97Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
28
Provided that this shall not apply to the extent of any mandatory holding of shares or interest 98[and rights] in the 99[holdco and/ or] SPV by the sponsor(s) as per any Act or regulations or circulars or guidelines of government or any regulatory authority or concession agreement.
(3)With respect to holding of units in the InvIT, the sponsor(s) together shall hold not less than 100[fifteen] per cent. of the total units of the InvIT after initial offer of units, on a post-issue basis for a period of not less than 3 years from the date of the listing of such units101[, subject to the following]:
102[“(i) sponsor(s) would be responsible for all acts, omissions and representations/covenants of the InvIT related to formation of InvIT, sale/ transfer of assets/holdco/SPV to the InvIT.
(ii)the InvIT/the trustee of the InvIT shall also have recourse against the Sponsor for any breach in this regard.
(iii)project Manager of the InvIT shall be the sponsor or an associate of the sponsor and shall continue to act in such capacity for a period of minimum three years from the date of listing of InvIT units unless suitable replacement is appointed by the unit-holders through the Trustee:
Provided that the condition as specified at sub clause (iii) above shall not be applicable where the sponsor(s) together hold not less than twenty five per cent. of the total units of the InvIT after initial offer of units, on a post-issue basis for a period of not less than 3 years from the date of the listing of such units.]
Provided 103[further] that in case of PPP projects 104[where the InvIT is investing in infrastructure assets through SPV(s)], in case such
98 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
99Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
100Substituted “twenty five” Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
101Inserted Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
102Inserted Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
103Inserted Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
104Inserted Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
29
acquiring or holding is disallowed by government or under any provisions of the concession agreement or any other such agreement,–
(i)the sponsor may continue to maintain such holding at the SPV level;
(ii)the consolidated value of all such holdings at the SPV level and the value of the units of InvIT held by the sponsor shall not be less than the value of 105[fifteen] per cent. of the total units of the InvIT after initial issue of units on a post-issue basis;
(iii)such units of the InvIT and shares or interest in the SPV shall be held for a period of not less than three years from the date of the listing of units of the InvIT;
(iv)in case such holding of sponsor in the SPV results in the InvIT not having controlling interest and not having more than fifty 106[one] per cent. shareholding or interest in the SPV, the sponsor shall enter into a binding agreement with the InvIT to ensure that decisions taken by the sponsor including voting with respect to the SPV are in compliance with these regulations and not against the interest of the InvITs or the unit holders and shall be subject to further guidelines as may be specified by the Board.
13.(1) The valuers shall comply with the following conditions at all times,–
(a)the valuer shall ensure that the valuation of the InvIT assets is impartial, true and fair and is in accordance with regulation 21;
(b)the valuer shall ensure adequate and robust internal controls to ensure the integrity of its valuation reports;
(c)the valuer shall ensure that it has sufficient key personnel with adequate experience and qualification to perform valuations;
105Substituted “twenty five” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
106Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
107Substituted “twenty five” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
30
(d)the valuer shall ensure that it has sufficient financial resources to enable it to conduct its business effectively and meet its liabilities;
(e)the valuer and any of its employees involved in valuing of the assets of the InvIT, shall not,–
i.invest in units of the InvIT or in the assets being valued; and
ii.sell the assets or units of InvITs held prior to being appointed as the valuer,
till the time such person is designated as valuer of such InvIT and not less than six months after ceasing to be valuer of the InvIT;
(f)the valuer shall conduct valuation of the InvIT assets with transparency and fairness and shall render, at all times, high standards of service, exercise due diligence, ensure proper care and exercise independent professional judgment;
(g)the valuer shall act with independence, objectivity and impartiality in performing the valuation;
(h)the valuer shall discharge its duties towards the InvIT in an efficient and competent manner, utilizing its knowledge, skills and experience in best possible way to complete given assignment;
(i)the valuer shall not accept remuneration, in any form, for performing a valuation of the InvIT assets from any person other than the InvIT or its authorized representative;
(j)the valuer shall before accepting any assignment,108[ from any related party of the InvIT,] disclose to the InvIT any direct or indirect consideration which the valuer may have in respect of such assignment;
(k)the valuer shall disclose to the InvIT any pending business transactions, contracts under negotiation and other arrangements with the investment manager or any other party whom the InvIT is contracting with and any other factors that may interfere with the valuer’s ability to give an independent and professional valuation of the assets;
(l)the valuer shall not make false, misleading or exaggerated claims in order to secure assignments;
(m)the valuer shall not provide misleading valuation, either by providing incorrect information or by withholding relevant information;
108Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
31
(n)the valuer shall not accept an assignment which interferes with its ability to do fair valuation;
(o)the valuer shall, prior to performing a valuation, acquaint itself with all laws or regulations relevant to such valuation.
(2)The auditor shall comply with the following conditions at all times,–
(a)the auditor shall conduct audit of the accounts of the InvIT and draft the audit report based on the accounts examined by him and after taking into account the relevant accounting and auditing standards, as may be specified by the Board;
(b)the auditor shall, to the best of his information and knowledge, ensure that the accounts and financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the affairs of the InvIT, including profit or loss and cash flow for the period and such other matters as may be specified;
14.(1) No initial offer of units by an InvIT shall be made unless,–
(a)The InvIT is registered with the Board under these regulations;
109Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
110Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
32
(b)the value of 111[InvIT assets] is not less than 112[rupees] five hundred crore.
Explanation.- Such value shall mean the value of the specific portion of the holding of InvIT in the underlying assets or 113[holdco or] SPVs;
(c)the offer size is not less than rupees two hundred fifty crore:
Provided that the requirement of ownership of assets under clause (b) and offer size under clause (c) may be complied 114[ at any point of time before allotment of units in accordance with offer document/placement memorandum] subject, to a binding agreement with the relevant party(ies) that 115[such] the requirements shall be fulfilled prior to 116[such] allotment 117[and] a declaration to the Board and 118[to] the designated stock exchanges to that effect, where applicable and adequate disclosures in this regard in the 119[***] offer document or placement memorandum.
120[(1A) The minimum offer and allotment to public through an offer document/ placement memorandum shall be,-
(a)atleast twenty five per cent. of the total outstanding units of the InvIT, if the post issue capital of the InvIT calculated at offer price is less than rupees one thousand six hundred crore:
111Substituted for the words “the assets held by the InvIT” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
112Substituted ”ruppes” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
113Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
114Substituted “with after initial offer or first offer of units under private placement” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
115Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
116Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
117Substituted “of units,” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
118Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
119Omitted “initial” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
120Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
33
Provided that this requirement shall be complied along with the requirement under Regulation 14(1)(c) of the InvIT Regulations.
(b)of the value of atleast Rs 400 crore, if the post issue capital of the InvIT calculated at offer price is equal to or more than rupees one thousand six hundred crore and less than rupees four thousand crore;
(c)atleast ten per cent. of the total outstanding units of the InvIT, if the post issue capital of the InvIT calculated at offer price is equal to or more than rupees four thousand crore:
Provided that any units offered to sponsor or the investment manager or the project manager or their related parties or their associates shall not be counted towards units offered to the public.
Provided further that any listed InvIT which has public holding below twenty five per cent on account of sub-clauses (b) and (c) above, such InvIT shall increase its public holding to at least twenty five per cent, within a period of three years from the date of listing pursuant to initial offer.]
(2)If the InvIT 121[ raises funds by way of private placement]–
(a)122[it shall do it] through a placement memorandum;
(b)from 123[institutional investors] and body corporate only, whether Indian or foreign:
Provided that in case of foreign investors, such investment shall be subject to guidelines as may be specified by Reserve Bank of India and the government from time to time;
(c)with minimum investment from any investor of rupees one crore;
124[Notwithstanding the above, if such an privately placed InvIT invests or proposes to invest not less than eighty per cent of the value of the InvIT assets 125[, in completed and revenue generating assets,] the minimum investment from an investor shall be rupees twenty five crore;]
121Substituted “invests or proposes to invest in under-construction projects, value of which is more than ten per cent. of the value of the InvIT assets, it shall raise funds,” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
122Substituted “by way of private placement only” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
123Substituted for the words “qualified institutional buyers” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
124Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
125Inserted by the SEBI (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017.
34
(d)from not less than five and not more than one thousand investors.
126[(e) shall file a placement memorandum with the Board alongwith the fee as specified in Schedule II, atleast 5 days prior to opening of the issue:
Provided that such opening of the issue shall not be at a date later than
3months from the receipt of in-principle approval for listing, from exchange(s).]
127[(f) it shall file the final placement memorandum with the Board within a period of ten working days from the date of listing of the units issued therein.]
(3)
128[***]
 
(4)
129[ If the InvIT raises funds by public issue] 130[***] 131[***]–
 
(a)
132[ it shall be by way of initial public offer];
 
(b)
any subsequent issue of units after initial 133[public] offer may be
 
 
by way of follow-on offer, preferential allotment, qualified
 
 
institutional placement, rights issue, bonus issue, offer for sale or
 
 
any other mechanism and in the manner as may be specified by
 
 
the Board;
 
(c)
minimum subscription from any investor in initial and follow-on
 
 
offer shall be 134[one] lakh rupees ;
126Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
127Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
128Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read “The InvIT as specified in sub-regulation (2) shall file the draft placement memorandum for making private placement of units with the Board along with the application for registration and the Board may communicate its comments, to such applicant which shall be incorporated by the applicant in placement memorandum prior to grant of registration.”
129Substituted “with respect to” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
130The word “InvITs” is omitted by the SEBI (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017.
131Omitted “that hold not less than eighty per cent. of its assets in completed and revenue generating infrastructure projects,” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
132Substituted “initial issue of units shall be by way of initial offer only” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
133Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
134Substituted for “ten” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019.
35
(d) 135[***]
(e)prior to initial 136[public] offer and follow-on offer, the 137[merchant banker] shall file the draft offer document 138[ along with the fee as specified in Schedule II,] with the designated stock exchange(s) and the Board not less than 139[thirty] working days before filing the 140[***] offer document with the designated stock exchange 141[and SEBI];
(f)the draft offer document filed with the Board shall be made public, for comments, if any, 142[***] by hosting it on the websites of the Board, designated stock exchanges 143[, InvIT] and merchant bankers associated with the issue 144[, for a period of not less than twenty one days];
(g)the Board may communicate its comments to the lead merchant banker and, in the interest of investors, may require the lead merchant banker to carry out such modifications in the draft offer document as it deems fit;
(h)the lead merchant banker shall ensure that all comments received from the Board on the draft offer document are suitably
135Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read “the units proposed to be offered to the public is not less than twenty five per cent. of the total of the outstanding units of the InvIT and the units being offered by way of the offer document:
Provided that if prior to the initial offer, units of the InvIT are held by the public, the units proposed to be offered to the public shall be calculated after reducing such existing units for satisfying the aforesaid percentage requirement;”
136Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
137Substituted “investment manager” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
138Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
139Substituted “twenty one” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
140Omitted “final” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
141Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
142Omitted “to be submitted to the Board, within a period of at least ten days,” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
143Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
144Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
36
addressed prior to the filing of the 145[***] offer document with the designated stock exchanges;
(i)in case no 146[observations] are 147[issued] by the Board in the draft offer document within twenty one working days from the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the lead merchant bankers or manager, the InvIT may 148[file] the 149[***] offer document or follow-on offer document 150[with the Board and the exchange(s)];
(j)the draft 151[offer document] and 152[***] offer document shall be accompanied by a due diligence certificate signed by the 153[***] lead merchant banker;
(k)the 154[***] offer document shall be filed with the designated stock exchanges and the Board not less than five working days before opening of the offer 155[***];
145Omitted “final” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
146Substituted “modifications” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
147Substituted “suggested” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
148Substituted “issue” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
149Omitted “final” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
150Substituted “to the public” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
151Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
152Omitted “final” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
153Omitted “investment manager and” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
154Omitted “final” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
155Omitted “and such filing with the Board shall be accompanied by filing fees as specified under Schedule II” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
37
(l)The InvIT may 156[open] the initial 157[public] offer or follow-on offer 158[or rights issue] within a period of not more than 159[one year] from the date of 160[***] issuance of observations by the Board 161[***]:
Provided that if the initial 162[public] offer or follow-on offer 163[or rights issue] is not made within the prescribed time period, a fresh 164[draft] offer document shall be filed;
165[Provided further that the InvIT shall not be required to file draft offer document with the Board in case of a fast track rights issue, subject to the fulfillment of the conditions as specified by the Board from time to time.]
(m)The InvIT may invite for subscriptions and allot units to any person, whether resident or foreign:
Provided that in case of foreign investors, such investment shall be subject to guidelines as may be specified by Reserve Bank of India and the government from time to time.
(n)the application for subscription shall be accompanied by a statement containing the abridged version of the offer document detailing the risk factors and summary of the terms of issue;
156Substituted “make” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
157Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
158Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
159Substituted “six months” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
160Omitted “last” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
161Omitted “, if any and if no observations have been issued by the Board, within six months from the date of filing of final offer document with the designated stock exchanges” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
162Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
163Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
164Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
165Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f 02.03.2020
38
(o)initial 166[public] offer and follow-on offer shall not be open for subscription for a period of more than thirty days;
(p)in case of over-subscriptions, the InvIT shall allot units to the applicants on a proportionate basis rounded off to the nearest integer subject to minimum subscription amount per subscriber as specified in clause (c);
(q)the InvIT shall allot units or refund application money,as the case may be, within twelve working days from the date of closing of the issue;
(r)the InvIT shall issue units in only in dematerialized form to all the applicants;
(s)the price of InvIT units issued by way of public issue shall be determined through the book building process or any other process in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Board and in the manner as may be specified by the Board;
(t)the InvIT shall refund money,-
(i)to all the applicants in case it fails to collect subscription of atleast 167[ninety] per cent. of the 168[fresh] issue size as specified in the 169[***] offer document;
(ii)to applicants to the extent of the over subscription, in case the moneys received is in excess of the extent of over- subscription as specified in the 170[***] offer document, money shall be refunded to applicants to the extent of the oversubscription:
Provided that right to retain such over subscription cannot exceed twenty five per cent. of the issue size;
166Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
167Substituted for “seventy five”by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
168Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
169Omitted “final” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
170Omitted “final” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
39
171[Provided further, that the offer document shall contain adequate disclosures towards the utilisation of such oversubscription proceeds, if any, and such proceeds retained on account of oversubscription shall not be utilised towards general purposes.]
(iii)to all the applicants, in case the number of subscribers to the initial 172[public] offer forming part of the public is less than twenty;
(u)If the investment manager fails to allot or list the units or refund the money within the specified time, then the investment manager shall pay interest to the unit holders at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum, till such allotment or listing or refund and such interest shall be not be recovered in the form of fees or any other form payable to the investment manager by the InvIT;
(v)units may be offered for sale to public,–
i.if such units have been held by the sellers for a period of at least one year prior to the filing of draft offer document with the Board:
Provided that the holding period for the equity shares 173[, compulsorily convertible securities (from the date such securities are fully paid-up)] or partnership interest in the 174[holdco or] SPV against which such units have been received shall be considered for the purpose of calculation of one year period referred in this sub-regulation:
175[Provided further that the compulsorily convertible securities, whose holding period has been included for the purpose of calculation for offer for sale, shall be converted to equity shares of the holdco or SPV, prior to filing of offer document.]
171Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
172Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
173Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
174Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
175Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
40
ii.subject to other guidelines as may be specified by the Board in this regard;
176[(va) The amount for general purposes, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft offer document filed with the Board, shall not exceed Ten per cent of the amount raised by the InvIT by issuance of units.]
(5)If the InvIT fails to make any offer of its units, whether by way of public issue or private placement, within three years from the date of registration with the Board, it shall surrender its certificate of registration to the Board and cease to operate as an InvIT:
15.(1) The offer document or placement memorandum of the InvIT shall contain material, true, correct and adequate disclosures to enable the investors to make an informed decision.
(2)Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the offer document or placement memorandum shall,–
(i)not be misleading or contain any untrue statements or mis- statements;
(ii)not provide for any guaranteed returns to the investors; and
(iii)include such other disclosures as may be specified by the Board.
(3)The offer document shall include all information as specified under Schedule III.
176Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
41
(4)
177[The placement memorandum shall contain all information as
 
specified under Schedule III, to the extent applicable.]
(5)No advertisement shall be issued pertaining to issue of units by an InvIT which makes a private placement of its units.
(6)With respect to advertisements pertaining to the offer of units by an InvIT with respect to public issue of its units,-
(i)such advertisement material shall not be misleading and shall not contain anything extraneous to the contents of the offer document;
(ii)if an advertisement contains positive highlights, it shall also contain risk factors with equal importance in all aspects including print size;
(iii)the advertisements shall be in accordance with any circulars or
guidelines as may be specified by the Board in this regard.
16.(1) It shall be mandatory for units of all InvITs to be listed on a recognized stock exchange having nationwide trading terminals, whether publicly issued or privately placed:
Provided that this sub-regulation shall not apply if the initial offer does not satisfy the minimum subscription amount or the minimum number of subscribers under regulation 14.
(2)The listing of the units shall be in accordance with the listing agreement entered into between the InvIT and the designated stock exchanges.
178[(2A) In the event of non-receipt of listing permission from the stock exchange(s) or withdrawal of Observation Letter issued by the Board, wherever applicable, the units shall not be eligible for listing and the InvIT shall be liable to refund the subscription monies, if any, to the respective allottees immediately alongwith interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum from the date of allotment.]
177Substituted for “The placement memorandum shall contain all material information about the InvIT, parties to the InvIT, fees and all other expenses proposed to be charged, tenure of the InvIT, investment strategy, risk management tools and parameters employed, key service providers, conflict of interest and procedures to identify and address them, disciplinary history of the sponsor(s), investment manager, trustee and their associates, the terms and conditions on which the investment manager offers investment services, its affiliations with other intermediaries, manner of winding up of the InvIT and such other information as may be necessary for the investor to take an informed decision on whether to invest in the InvIT.” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
178Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
42
(3)The units of the InvIT listed in the designated stock exchanges shall be traded, cleared and settled in accordance with the bye-laws of designated stock exchanges and such conditions as may be specified by the Board.
(4)The InvIT shall redeem units only by way of a buyback or at the time of delisting of units.
(5)The units shall remain listed on the designated Stock Exchanges unless delisted under regulation 17.
(6)The minimum public holding for the units of the 179[***] InvIT after listing shall be 180[ in accordance with sub-regulation (1A) of regulation 14] failing which action may be taken as may be specified by the Board and by the designated stock exchanges including delisting of units under regulation 17.
(7)The minimum number of unit holders in an InvIT other than the sponsor(s) 181[, its related parties and its associates] ,–
(a)in case of privately placed InvIT, shall be five, each holding not more than twenty five per cent. of the units of the InvIT;
(b)forming part of public shall be twenty, each holding not more than twenty five per cent. of the units of the InvIT,
at all times post listing of the units, failing which action may be taken as may be specified by the Board and by the designated stock exchanges including delisting of units under regulation 17.
(8)With respect to listing of privately placed units,–
(a)its units shall be mandatorily listed on the designated stock exchange(s) within thirty working days from the date of 182[allotment];
(b)trading lot for the purpose of trading of units on the designated stock exchange shall be rupees one crore.
Notwithstanding the above, if an InvIT invests not less than eighty per cent of the value of the InvIT assets, 184[in completed and
179Omitted “publicly offered” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
180Substituted for “twenty five per cent. of the total number of outstanding units, at all times,” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
181Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
182Substituted for “final closing” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
183Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
184Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f 15.12.2017
43
revenue generating assets,] the trading lot for the purpose of trading of units on the designated stock exchange of such InvIT shall be rupees two crore;]
(9)With respect to listing of publicly offered units,–
(a)its units shall be mandatorily listed on the designated stock exchange(s) within twelve working days from the date of closure of the initial 185[public] offer:
Provided that this sub-regulation shall not apply if the initial 186[public] offer does not satisfy the minimum subscription amount or the minimum number of subscribers as specified in regulation 14;
(b)trading lot for the purpose of trading of units on the designated stock exchange shall 187[consist of 100 units].
(10)Any person other than the sponsor(s) holding units of the InvIT prior to initial offer shall hold the units for a period of not less than one year from the date of listing of the units.
17.(1) The investment manager shall apply for delisting of units of the InvIT to the Board and the designated stock exchanges if,-
(a)the public holding falls below the specified limit under sub- regulation (6) of regulation 16;
(b)the number of unit holders of the InvIT falls below the limit as specified under sub-regulation (7) 188[of regulation 16];
(c)if there are no projects or assets remaining under the InvIT for a period exceeding six months and InvIT does not propose to invest in any project in future:
185Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
186Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
187Substituted for the words “be five lakh rupees” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019
188Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
44
Provided that, the period may be extended by further 6 months, with the approval of unitholders in the manner as specified in regulation 22;
(d)the Board or the designated stock exchanges require such delisting for violation of the listing agreement or these regulations or the Act;
(e)the 189[****] trustee 190[and investment manager] requests such delisting and such request has been approved by unit holders in accordance with regulation 22;
191[(ea) the trustee and the Investment Manager of a privately placed and listed InvIT chooses to convert InvIT to a privately placed unlisted InvIT and such request has been approved by unit holders in accordance with regulation 22:
Provided that exit shall be provided to dissenting unitholders.]
(f)unit holders apply for such delisting in accordance with regulation 22;
(g)the Board or the designated stock exchanges require such delisting in the interest of the unit holders:
Provided that if clause (a) or (b) is breached, the trustee may provide a period of six months to the investment manager to rectify the same, failing which shall apply for such delisting:
Provided further that in case of PPP projects, such delisting shall be subject to relevant clauses in the concession agreement.
(2)The Board and the designated stock Exchanges may consider such application for delisting for approval or rejection as may be appropriate in the interest of the unit holders.
(3)The Board may, instead of delisting of the units, if it deems fit, provide additional time to the InvIT or parties to the InvIT to comply with sub- regulation (1).
(4)The Board may reject the application for delisting and take any other action, as it deems fit, under these regulations or the Act for violation of the listing agreement or these regulations or the Act.
(5)The procedure for delisting of units of InvIT including provision of exit
option to the unit holders shall be in accordance with the listing
189The words “sponsor(s) or” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019
190Inserted ibid.
191Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019
45
agreement and in accordance with procedure as may be specified by the Board and by the designated stock exchanges from time to time.
18.(1) The investment by an InvIT shall only be in 193[holdco and/ or] SPVs or infrastructure projects or securities in India in accordance with these regulations and the investment strategy as detailed in the offer document or Placement memorandum.
(2)In case of PPP projects, the InvIT shall mandatorily invest in the infrastructure projects through 194[holdco and/ or] SPV.
(3)The InvIT may invest in infrastructure projects through SPVs subject to the following,–
(a)no other shareholder or partner of the SPV shall 195[exercise] any rights that prevents the InvIT from complying with the provisions of these regulations and an agreement 196[has been] entered into
192Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019
193Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
194Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
195Substituted for the word “have” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
196Substituted ibid for the words “shall be”.
46
with such shareholders or partners to that effect prior to investment in the SPV:
197[Provided that the shareholders’ agreement or partnership agreement shall provide for an appropriate mechanism for resolution of disputes between the InvIT and the other shareholders or partners in the holdco and/or the SPV:
Provided further that the provisions of these regulations shall prevail in case of inconsistencies between such agreement(s) and the obligations cast upon an InvIT under these regulations.]
(b)in case the SPV is a company198[/LLP], the investment manager, in consultation with the trustee, shall appoint 199[majority of] the board of directors or governing board of such SPVs 200[as applicable] ;
(c)the investment manager shall ensure that the in every meeting including annual general meeting of the SPV, the voting of the InvIT is exercised.
201[(3A) The InvIT may invest in infrastructure projects through holdcos subject to the following,-
(a)the ultimate holding interest of the InvIT in the underlying SPV(s) is not less than twenty six per cent;
(b)no other shareholder or partner of the holdco or the SPV(s) shall 202[exercise] any rights that prevent the InvIT, the HoldCo or the
SPV(s) from complying with the provisions of these regulations and an agreement 203[has been] entered into with such
197Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
198Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
199Substituted for “not less than one authorized representative on” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
200Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
201Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
202Substituted for the word “have” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
203Substituted ibid for the words “shall be”.
47
shareholders or partners to that effect prior to investment in the holdco/SPV:
204[Provided that the shareholders’ agreement or partnership agreement shall provide for an appropriate mechanism for resolution of disputes between the InvIT and the other shareholders or partners in the holdco and/or the SPV:
Provided further that the provisions of these regulations shall prevail in case of inconsistencies between such agreement(s) and the obligations cast upon an InvIT under these regulations.]
(c)the investment manager, in consultation with the Trustee, shall appoint the majority of the Board of directors or governing board of the holdco and SPV(s);
the investment manager shall ensure that in every meeting including annual general meeting of the Holdco and SPV(s), the voting of the InvIT is exercised;]
(4)
205[ In case of InvIT as specified under sub-regulation (2) of regulation
 
14, the InvIT shall invest not less than eighty per cent of the value of the
 
InvIT assets in eligible infrastructure projects either directly or through
holdcos or through SPVs:
Provided that un-invested funds may be invested in instruments as provided under sub-clause (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) of clause (b) of sub- regulation 5 of Regulation 18.]
(5)In case of InvITs as specified under sub-regulation (4) of regulation 14,–
(a)not less than eighty per cent. of the value of 206[InvIT] the assets shall be invested, proportionate to the holding of the InvITs, in completed and revenue generating infrastructure projects subject to the following;
204Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
205Substituted for “In case of InvIT as specified under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 14, the InvIT shall invest only in eligible infrastructure projects or securities of companies or partnership interests of LLPs in infrastructure sector:
Provided that un-invested funds may be invested in liquid funds or government securities or money market instruments or cash equivalents.
Explanation.- Companies or LLPs in infrastructure sector shall mean those companies or LLPs which derive not less than eighty per cent. of their operating income from infrastructure sector as per the audited accounts of the previous financial year.” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
206Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
48
(i)if the investment has been made through a 207[holdco and/ or] SPV208[(s)], whether by way of equity or debt or equity linked instruments or partnership interest, only the portion of direct investments in 209[completed and revenue generating] projects by such 210[holdco and/ or SPV(s)] shall be considered under this sub-regulation and the remaining portion shall be included under clause (b);
(ii)if any project is implemented in stages, the part of the project which can be categorised as completed and revenue generating project shall be considered under this sub-regulation and the remaining portion shall be included under clause (b);
(b)not more than twenty per cent. of value of the 211[InvIT] assets, 212[***] shall be invested in,–
(i)under-construction infrastructure projects, whether directly or through 213[holdco and/ or] SPVs:
Provided that investment in such assets shall not exceed ten per cent. of the value of the 214[InvIT assets];
(ii)listed or unlisted debt of companies or body corporate in infrastructure sector:
Provided that this shall not include any investment made in debt of the 215[holdco and/ or SPV(s)];
(iii)equity shares of companies listed on a recognized stock exchange in India which derive not less than eighty per cent. of their operating income from infrastructure sector
207Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
208Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
209Substituted for “eligible infrastructure” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
210Substituted for “SPVs” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
211Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
212Omitted “proportionate to the holding of the InvITs,” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
213Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
214Substituted for “assets of the InvIT” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
215Substituted for “SPV” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
49
as per the audited accounts of the previous financial year;
(iv)government securities;
(v)money market instruments, liquid mutual funds or cash equivalents;
(c)if the conditions specified in clauses (a) and (b) are breached on account of market movements of the price of the underlying assets or securities, the investment manager shall inform the same to the trustee and ensure that the conditions as specified in this regulation are satisfied within six months of such breach:
Provided that the period may be extended to one year subject to approval from investors in accordance with regulation 22.
216[(5A) The investment conditions as specified at sub-regulation (4) and (5) of regulation 18 and sub -regulation shall be complied at the time of Offer document/placement memorandum and therafter.]
(6)With respect to distributions made by the InvIT and the 217[holdco and/or] SPV,-
(a)not less than ninety per cent. of net distributable cash flows of the SPV shall be distributed to the InvIT 218[/holdco]in proportion of its holding in the SPV subject to applicable provisions in Companies Act, 2013 or Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008;
(b)not less than ninety per cent. of net distributable cash flows of the InvIT shall be distributed to the unit holders;
219[(ba) with regard to distribution of net distributable cash flows by the holdco to the InvIT, the following shall be complied:
(i)with respect to the cash flows received by the holdco from underlying SPVs, 100% of such cash flows received by the holdco shall be distributed to the InvIT; and
(ii)with respect to the cash flows generated by the holdco on its own, not less than 90% of such net distributable cash flows shall be distributed by the holdco to the InvIT.]
(c)such distributions shall be declared and made not less than once every six months in every financial year in case of publicly offered
216Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
217Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
218Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
219Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
50
InvITs and not less than once every year in case of privately placed InvITs and shall be made not later than fifteen days from the date of such declaration;
(d)subject to 220[sub-]clause (c), such distribution shall be 221[***] in the manner as mentioned in the offer document or placement memorandum.
(7)If any infrastructure asset is sold by the InvIT or 222[holdco or] SPV or if the equity shares or interest in the 223[holdco/] SPV are sold by the InvIT,–
(a)if the InvIT 224[***] proposes to re-invest the sale proceeds into another infrastructure asset, it shall not be required to distribute any sales proceeds to the InvIT or to the investors;
(b)If the InvIT 225[***] proposes not to invest the sales proceeds into any other infrastructure asset 226[within a period of one year], it shall be require to distribute the same in accordance with sub- regulation (6).
(8)If the distributions are not made within fifteen days of declaration, then the investment manager shall be liable to pay interest to the unit holders at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum till the distribution is made and such interest shall be not be recovered in the form of fees or any other form payable to the investment manager by the InvIT.
(9)An InvIT shall not invest in units of other InvITs.
(10)An InvIT shall not undertake lending to any person 227[other than the holdco/ SPV(s) in which the InvIT has invested in]:
Provided that investment in debt securities shall not be considered as lending.
220Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
221Omitted “as per the dates and” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
222Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
223Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
224Omitted “or SPV” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
225Omitted “or SPV” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
226Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
227Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
51
(11)An InvIT shall hold an infrastructure asset for a period of not less than three years from the date of purchase of such asset by the InvIT, directly or through 228[holdco and/or] SPV:
Provided that this shall not apply to investment in securities of companies in infrastructure sector other than SPVs.
(12)In case of any co-investment with any person(s) in any transaction,–
(a)the investment by the other person(s) shall not be at terms more favourable than those to the InvIT;
(b)the investment shall not provide any rights to the person(s) which shall prevent the InvIT from complying with the provisions of these regulations;
(c)the agreement with such person(s) shall include the minimum percentage of distributable cash flows that will be distributed and entitlement of the InvIT to receive not less than pro rata distributions and mode for resolution of any disputes between the InvIT and the other person(s).
19.(1) All related party transactions shall be on an arms-length basis in accordance with relevant accounting standards, in the best interest of the unit holders, consistent with the strategy and investment objectives of the InvIT.
(2)All related party transactions of an InvIT shall be disclosed,–
(a)in the offer document or placement memorandum with respect to any such transactions entered into prior to the offer of units and any such proposed transactions subsequent to the offer;
(b)to the designated stock exchanges and unit holders periodically in accordance with the listing agreement and these regulations.
(3)With respect to related party transactions with respect to 229[***] InvITs entered into after initial 230[public] offer, if,–
228Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
229Omitted “publicly offered” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
230Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
52
(a)the total value of all the related party transactions, in a financial year, pertaining to acquisition or sale of assets 231[whether directly or through holdco or through SPV,] or investments into securities exceeds five per cent. of the value of 232[the] InvIT 233[assets]; or
(b)the value of the funds borrowed from related parties, in a financial year, exceeds five per cent. of the total consolidated borrowings of the InvIT 234[,holdco and the SPV(s)],
approval from the unit holders shall be obtained prior to entering into any such subsequent transaction with any related party in accordance with regulation 22.
(4)Transaction between two or more of the InvITs with a common investment manager or sponsor, shall be deemed to be related party transactions for each of the InvITs and provisions of regulation 19 shall apply:
Provided that this sub-regulation shall also apply if the investment managers or sponsors of the InvITs are different entities but are associates.
(5)With respect to any related party transaction, details of any fees or commissions received or to be received by 235[such related party (ies)] shall be adequately disclosed to the designated stock exchanges.
(6)Where any of the related parties have an interest in a business which competes or is likely to compete, either directly or indirectly, with the activities of the InvIT, the following details shall be disclosed in the offer document or placement memorandum,–
(a)details of the such business including an explanation as to how such business shall compete with the InvIT;
(b)a declaration that the related party shall perform its duty in relation to the InvIT independent of its related business;
(c)declaration as to whether any acquisition of such business by the InvIT is intended and if so, details of the same thereof.
231Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
232Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
233Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
234Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
235Substituted for “any person or entity which is an associate of the related party” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
53
20. 236[(1) An InvIT, whose units are listed on a recognized stock exchange, may issue debt securities in the manner specified by the Board:
Provided that such debt securities shall be listed on recognized stock exchange(s).]
237[(2)] The aggregate consolidated borrowings and deferred payments of the InvIT 238[, holdco and the SPV(s),] net of cash and cash equivalents shall 239[not] exceed 240[seventy] per cent. of the value of the InvIT assets.
241[(3)] If the aggregate consolidated borrowings and deferred payments of the InvIT 242[, holdco and the SPV(s),] net of cash and cash equivalents exceed twenty five per cent. of the value of the InvIT assets, for any further borrowing,–
243[a) upto forty nine percent, an InvIT shall -
(i)obtain credit rating from a credit rating agency registered with the Board; and
(ii)seek approval of unitholders in the manner as specified in Regulation 22.
b)above forty nine percent, an InvIT shall -
(i)obtain a credit rating of “AAA” or equivalent for its consolidated borrowing and the proposed borrowing, from a credit rating agency registered with the Board;
236Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
237Re-numbered ibid.
238Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
239Substituted for the word “never” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019
240Substituted ibid for the words “forty nine”.
241Re-numbered by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
242Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
243Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019. prior to the substitution, clauses (a) and (b) read as follows:
“(a)credit rating shall be obtained from a credit rating agency registered with the Board; and (b)approval of unit holders shall be obtained in the manner as specified in regulation 22.”
54
(ii)utilize the funds only for acquisition or development of infrastructure projects;
(iii)have a track record of atleast six distributions, in terms of sub- regulation (6) of regulation 18, on a continuous basis, post listing, in the years preceding the financial year in which the enhanced borrowings are proposed to be made;
(iv)obtain the approval of unitholders in the manner specified in sub- regulation (5A) of regulation 22.]
244[(4)] If the conditions specified in sub-regulations (1) and (2) are breached on account of market movements of the price of the underlying assets or securities, the investment manager shall inform the same to the trustee and ensure that the conditions are satisfied within six months of such breach.
21.(1) The valuer shall not be an associate of the sponsor(s) or investment manager or trustee and shall have not less than five years of experience in valuation of infrastructure assets.
(2)Full valuation includes a detailed valuation of all assets of the InvIT by the valuer including physical inspection of every infrastructure project by the valuer.
(3)Full valuation report shall include the mandatory minimum disclosures as specified in Schedule V.
(4)A full valuation shall be conducted by the valuer not less than once in every financial year:
Provided that such full valuation shall be conducted at the end of the financial year ending March 31st within two months from the date of end of such year.
(5)A half yearly valuation of the assets of the InvIT shall be conducted by the valuer for the half-year ending September 30th for a publicly offered InvIT for incorporating any key changes in the previous six months and such half yearly valuation report shall be prepared within one month from the date of end of such half year:
245[Provided that in case the consolidated borrowings and deferred payments of an InvIT, in terms of Regulation 20, is above forty nine per cent, the valuation of the assets of such InvIT shall be conducted by the
244Re-numbered by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
245Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019
55
valuer for quarter ending June, September and December, for incorporating any key changes in the previous quarter and such quarterly report shall be prepared within one month from the date of the end of such quarter.]
(6)Valuation reports received by the investment manager shall be submitted by the investment manager to the designated stock exchanges within fifteen days from the receipt of such valuation reports.
(7)Prior to any issue of units by publicly offered InvIT other than bonus issue, the valuer shall undertake full valuation of all the InvIT assets and include the same in the Offer Document:
Provided that such valuation report shall not be more than six months old at the time of such offer:
Provided further that this shall not apply in cases where full valuation has been undertaken not more than six months prior to such issue and no material changes have occurred thereafter.
(8)For any transaction of purchase or sale of infrastructure projects, whether directly or through 246[holdco and/or] SPVs, for publicly offered InvITs,–
(a)a full valuation of the specific project shall be undertaken by the valuer;
(b)if,–
(1)in case of a purchase transaction, the asset is proposed to be purchased at a value greater than hundred ten per cent of the value of the asset as assessed by the valuer;
(2)in case of a sale transaction, the asset is proposed to be sold at a value less than ninety per cent. of the value of the asset as assessed by the valuer,
approval of the unit holders shall be obtained in accordance with regulation 22.
(9)No valuer shall undertake valuation of the same project for more than four years consecutively:
Provided that the valuer may be reappointed after a period of not less than two years from the date it ceases to be the valuer of the InvIT.
247[***]
246Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
247Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017. Prior to the omission, the sub-regulation read as follows:
22.(1) The unit holder shall have the rights to receive income or distributions as provided for in the offer document or placement memorandum.
(2)With respect to any matter requiring approval of the unit holders,-
(a)a resolution shall be considered as passed when the votes cast by unit holders, so entitled and voting, in favour of the resolution exceed a certain percentage as specified in these regulations, of votes cast against;
(b)the voting may also be done by postal ballot or electronic mode;
(c)a notice of not less than twenty one days shall be provided to the unit holders;
(d)voting by any person who is a related party in such transaction as well as associates of such person(s) shall not be considered on the specific issue;
“(10) Any valuation undertaken by any valuer shall be in compliance with by international valuation standards and valuation standards as may be specified by Institute of Chartered Accountants of India for valuation of infrastructure assets or such other valuation standards as may be specified by the Board:
Provided that in case of any conflict, standards specified by Institute of Chartered Accountants of India shall prevail.”
57
(e)investment manager shall be responsible for all the activities pertaining to conducting of meeting of the unit holder, subject to overseeing by the trustee:
Provided that in issues pertaining to the investment manager such as change in investment manager including removal of the investment manager or change in control of the investment manager, trustee shall convene and handle all activities pertaining to conduct of the meetings:
Provided further that in respect of issues pertaining to the trustee Including change in the trustee, the trustee shall not be involved in any manner in the conduct of the meeting.
(3)248[For an] InvITs,–
(a)an annual meeting of all unit holders shall be held not less than once a year within one hundred twenty days from the end of financial year and the time between two meetings shall not exceed fifteen months;
(b)with respect to the annual meeting of unit holders,–
(i)any information that is required to be disclosed to the unit holders and any issue that, in the ordinary course of business, may require approval of the unit holders may be taken up in the meeting including,–
(1)latest annual accounts and performance of the InvIT;
(2)approval of auditor and fees of such auditor, as may be required;
(3)latest valuation reports;
(4)appointment of valuer, as may be required;
(5)any other issue;
(ii)for any issue taken up in such meetings which require approval from the unit holders other than as specified in sub- regulation (6) under, votes cast in favour of the resolution shall 249[ be more than] the votes cast against the resolution;
(4)In case of,–
(a)any approval from unit holders required under regulation 18, 19 and 21;
(b)any transaction, other than any borrowing, value of which is equal to or greater than twenty five per cent. of the InvIT assets;
248Substituted for “With respect to publicly offered” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
249Substituted for “not be less than one and a half times” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
58
250[(c) any borrowing in terms of the limit specified under clause (a) of sub-regulation (3) of regulation 20;]
(d)any issue of units after 251[ initial public offer by an InvIT] , in whatever form, other than any issue of units which may be considered by the Board under sub-regulation (5);
(e)increasing period for compliance with investment conditions to one year in accordance with clause (c) of sub-regulation (5) of regulation 18;
(f)any issue, in the ordinary course of business, which in the opinion of the sponsor(s) or trustee or investment manager, is material and requires approval of the unit holders, if any;
(g)any issue for which the Board or the designated stock exchanges requires such approval under this sub-regulation,
approval from unit holders shall be required where votes cast in favour of the resolution shall 252[be more than] the votes cast against the resolution.
(5)In case of,–
(a)any change in investment manager including removal of the investment manager or change in control of the investment manager;
(b)any material change in investment strategy or any change in the management fees of the InvIT;
(c)the 253[***] 254[trustee and] investment manager proposing to seek delisting of units of the InvIT 255[under clause (e) of sub-regulation
(1) of regulation 17];
(d)any issue, not in the ordinary course of business, which in the opinion of the sponsor(s) or investment manager or trustee requires approval of the unit holders;
(e)any issue for which the Board or the designated stock exchanges requires approval under this sub-regulation;
250Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019. Prior to substitution, clause (c) read as follows:
“(c) any borrowing in excess of specified limit as required under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 20;”
251Substituted for “initial offer by a publicly offered InvIT” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
252Substituted for “not be less than one and half times” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
253Words “sponsor(s) or” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019
254Inserted ibid
255Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019
59
(f)any issue taken up on request of the unit holders including,–
(i)removal of the investment manager and appointment of another investment manager to the InvIT;
(ii)removal of the auditor and appointment of another auditor to the InvIT;
(iii)removal of the valuer and appointment of another valuer to the InvIT;
(iv)delisting of an InvIT, if the unit holders have sufficient reason to believe that such delisting would act in the interest of the unit holders;
(v)any issue which the unit holders have sufficient reason to believe that is detrimental to the interest of the unit holders;
(vi)change in the trustee if the unit holders have sufficient reason to believe that acts of such trustee is detrimental to the
interest of the unit holders,
approval from unit holders shall be required where votes cast in favour of the resolution shall not be less than 256[one and a half] times the votes cast against the resolution:
Provided that in case of clause (d), if approval is not obtained, the person shall provide an exit option to the unit holder to the extend and in the manner specified by the Board.
257[(5A) In case of any borrowing by an InvIT in terms of the limit specified in clause (b) of sub-regulation 3 of regulation 20, the approval from seventy five per cent. of the unit holders by value shall be obtained.
(5B) For delisting of units of InvIT in terms of clause (ea) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 17, approval from not less than ninety per cent. of the unit holders by value shall be required and exit shall be provided to dissenting unitholders.]
(6)With respect to the right(s) of the unit holders under clauses (f) of sub- regulation (5),–
(a)not less than twenty five per cent. of the unit holders by value, other than any party related to the transactions and its associates, shall apply, in writing, to the trustee for the purpose;
(b)on receipt of such application, the trustee shall require the issue with the investment manager to place the issue for voting in the manner as specified in these regulations;
256Substituted for “three” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
257Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019
23.(1) A privately placed InvIT shall ensure that the disclosures in the placement memorandum are in accordance with the sub-regulation (4) of regulation 15 and any circulars or guidelines issued by the Board in this regard.
(2)A publicly offered InvIT shall ensure that the disclosures in the offer document are in accordance with the Schedule III and any circulars or guidelines issued by the Board in this regard.
(3)The investment manager of all InvITs shall submit an annual report to all unit holders electronically or by physical copies and to the designated stock exchanges within three months from the end of the financial year.
(4)The investment manager of shall submit a half-yearly report to the designated stock exchange within forty five days from the end of 258[***] half year ending 259[***] September 30th:
260[Provided that for any InvIT, whose units are listed and whose consolidated borrowings and deferred payments, in terms of regulation 20, is above forty nine per cent., such InvIT shall also submit a quarterly report to the designated stock exchange within thirty days from the end of every quarter ending June and December.]
(5)261[Annual/ half yearly /quarterly reports shall contain disclosures as specified under Part-A, Part-B and Part-C, respectively, of Schedule IV.]
(6)The investment manager shall disclose to the designated stock exchanges any information having bearing on the operation or performance of the InvIT as well as price sensitive information which includes but is not restricted to the following,–
(a)acquisition or disposal of any projects, directly or through 262[ holdco or] SPV, value of which exceeds five per cent. of value of the InvIT assets;
258Words “the every” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019
259Words and number “March 31st and” omitted ibid.
260Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019
261Substituted ibid. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (5) read as follows:
“Such annual and half yearly reports shall contain disclosures as specified under Schedule IV.”
262Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
61
(b)additional borrowing, at level of 263[holdco or] SPV or the InvIT, exceeding fifteen per cent. of the value of the InvIT assets ;
(c)additional issue of units by the InvIT;
(d)details of any credit rating obtained by the InvIT and any change in such rating;
(e)any issue which requires approval of the unit holders;
(f)any legal proceedings which may have significant bearing on the functioning of the InvIT;
(g)notices and results of meetings of unit holders,
(h)any instance of non-compliance with these regulations including any breach of limits specified under the regulations;
(i)any material issue that in the opinion of the investment manager or trustee needs to be disclosed to the unit holders.
(7)The InvIT shall also submit such information to the designated stock exchanges and unit holders on a periodical basis as may be required under the listing agreement.
(8)The InvIT shall disclose to the designated stock exchanges, unit holders and the Board such information and in the manner as may be specified by the Board.
24.The Board may at any time call upon the InvIT or parties to the InvIT to file such reports, as the Board may desire, with respect to the activities relating to the InvIT.
25.(1) The Board may at any time call for any information from the InvIT or 264[holdco or SPV(s)] parties to the InvIT or 265[holdco or SPV(s)] any unit holder or any other person with respect to any matter relating to activity of the InvIT.
(2)Where any information is called for under sub-regulation (1), it shall be furnished within the time specified by the Board.
263Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
264Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
265Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
62
26.(1) The investment manager shall maintain records pertaining to the activity of the InvIT, wherever applicable, including,–
(a)all investments or divestments of the InvIT and documents supporting the same including rationale for such investments or divestments;
(b)agreements entered into by the InvIT or on behalf of the InvIT;
(c)documents relating to appointment of persons as specified in sub-regulation (5) of regulation 10;
(d)insurance policies for infrastructure assets;
(e)investment management agreement;
(f)documents pertaining to issue and listing of units including placement memorandum, draft and final offer document, in- principle approval by designated stock exchanges, listing agreement with the designated stock exchanges, details of subscriptions, allotment of units, etc;
(g)distributions declared and made to the unit holders;
(h)disclosures and periodical reporting made to the trustee, Board, unit holders and the designated stock exchanges including annual reports, half yearly reports, etc.;
(i)valuation reports including methodology of valuation;
(j)books of accounts and financial statements;
(k)audit reports;
(l)reports relating to activities of the InvIT placed before the board of directors of the investment manager;
(m)unit holders' grievances and actions taken thereon including copies of correspondences made with the unit holder and the Board, if any;
(n)any other material documents;
(2)The trustee shall maintain records, wherever applicable, pertaining to,–
(a)certificate of registration granted by the Board;
(b)registered trust deed;
(c)documents pertaining to application made to the Board for registration as an InvIT;
(d)titles of the infrastructure assets:
Provided that where the original title documents are deposited with the lender or any other person in respect of any loan or debt, the trustee shall maintain copies of such title documents;
(e)notices and agenda send to unit holders for meetings held;
63
(f)minutes of meetings and resolutions passed therein;
(g)periodical reports and disclosures received by the trustee from the investment manager;
(h)disclosures, periodically or otherwise, made to the Board, unit holders and the designated stock exchanges;
(i)any other material documents.
26A. Applicability
(1)The provisions of this chapter shall apply to an InvIT, which proposes to issue units or has issued units, on a private placement basis in terms of these regulations.
(2)The units so issued or proposed to be issued shall not be eligible to be listed on recognised stock exchanges.
(3)All the provisions of these regulations applicable to an InvIT, whose units are privately placed and listed or proposed to be listed, shall be applicable to an InvIT issuing units/who has issued units under the provisions of this chapter, except for the following -
(a)sub-regulation (4), (9),(10) and (22) of regulation 10;
(b)sub-regulation (1A) and (2) of regulation 14;
(c)regulation 16;
(d)regulation 17;
(e)regulation 20;
(f)sub-regulation (6) of regulation 21;
(g)sub-clause (iv) of clause (f) of sub-regulation (5) of regulation 22;
266Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019
64
(h)regulation 23;
(i)sub-regulation (15) of regulation 9 in respect of obtaining prior approval of the Board for any change in the investment manager;
26B. Raising of funds and investments
(1)An InvIT raising funds by way of a private placement in terms of the provisions of this Chapter–
(a)shall do it through a placement memorandum;
(b)shall raise funds only from institutional investors and body corporates, whether Indian or foreign:
Provided that in case of foreign investors, such investment shall be subject to guidelines as may be specified by the Reserve Bank of India and the Government from time to time;
(c)shall not accept from an investor, an investment of value less than rupees one crore;
(d)shall not raise funds from more than twenty investors;
(e)shall file a placement memorandum with the Board alongwith the fee as specified in Schedule II, atleast 5 days prior to opening of the issue;
(f)shall file the final placement memorandum with the Board within a period of ten working days from the date of allotment of the units to the investors;
(g)invest not less than eighty per cent of the value of the InvIT assets in eligible infrastructure projects either directly or through holdcos or through SPVs:
Provided that un-invested funds may be invested in instruments as provided under sub-clause (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) of clause (b) of sub- regulation 5 of Regulation 18.
65
26C. Disclosures
(1)An InvIT issuing units as per the provisions of this Chapter shall ensure that the disclosures in the placement memorandum are in accordance with sub-regulation
(4)of regulation 15 and any circular or guideline issued by the Board in this regard.
(2)The investment manager of the InvIT shall submit annual report, half-yearly report and valuation report to the trustee and unit holders of the InvIT, either electronically or through physical copies.
(3)The annual and half yearly reports shall contain disclosures as specified under Schedule IV, to the extent applicable.
(4)The investment manager shall disclose to the trustee and unitholders any information having bearing on the operation or performance of the InvIT which includes but is not restricted to the following–
(a)acquisition or disposal of any projects, directly or through holdco or SPV, value of which exceeds five per cent. of value of the InvIT assets;
(b)additional issue of units by the InvIT;
(c)details of any credit rating obtained by the InvIT and any change in such rating;
(d)any issue which requires approval of the unit holders;
(e)any legal proceedings which may have significant bearing on the functioning of the InvIT;
(f)notices and results of meetings of unit holders,
(g)any instance of non-compliance with these regulations including any breach of limits specified under the regulations;
(h)any material issue that in the opinion of the investment manager or trustee needs to be disclosed to the unit holders.
26D. General
(1)The investment manager shall be responsible for all activities pertaining to the issue of units including filing of placement memorandum with the Board and dealing with all matters relating to the allotment of units to the unit holders.
(2)The investment manager shall ensure that disclosures made in the placement memorandum contains material, true, correct and adequate disclosures and are in accordance with these regulations and guidelines or circulars issued by the Board.
(3)The investment manager shall ensure that the investments made by the InvIT are in accordance with the investment conditions as specified in this Chapter and in accordance with the investment strategy of the InvIT.
26E. Surrender of certificate
(1)An InvIT which has issued units as per the provisions of this Chapter, may choose to surrender its certificate of registration to the Board and on acceptance of surrender of certificate of registration, it shall no longer undertake the activity of an InvIT.
26F. Listing of units
An InvIT which has issued units in terms of the provisions of this Chapter, may list such units on a recognised stock exchange, subject to it complying with the requirements specified for privately placed and listed InvIT under these regulations and in the manner specified by the Board from time to time.]
27.The Board may suo motu or upon receipt of information or complaint appoint one or more persons as inspecting officers to undertake inspection of the books of accounts, records and documents relating to activity of the InvIT 267[ or holdco or SPV or parties to the InvIT] for any of the following reasons, namely,--
(a)to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being maintained by the InvIT or parties to the InvIT in the manner specified in these regulations;
(b)to inspect into complaints received from unit holders, clients or any other person, on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the InvIT;
(c)to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act and these regulations are being complied with by the InvIT and parties to the InvIT; and
(d)to inspect suo motu into the affairs of the InvIT, in the interest of the securities market or in the interest of investors.
28.(1) Before ordering an inspection under regulation 27, the Board shall give not less than ten days notice to the trustee of the InvIT.
(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may, by an order in writing, direct that the inspection of the affairs of the InvIT be taken up without such notice.
267Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
68
(3)During the course of an inspection, the InvIT against whom the inspection is being carried out and parties to the InvIT shall be bound to discharge their obligations as provided in regulation 29.
29.(1) It shall be the duty of every InvIT in respect of whom an inspection has been ordered under the regulation 27, parties to the InvIT and any other associate person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of such InvIT, including representative of InvIT, if any, to produce to the inspecting officer such books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control and furnish him with such statements and information as the inspecting officer may require for the purposes of inspection.
(2)It shall be the duty of every InvIT, parties to the InvIT and any other associate person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of the InvIT to give to the inspecting officer all such assistance and to extend all such co-operation as may be required in connection with the inspection and to furnish such information as may be sought by the inspecting officer in connection with the inspection.
(3)The inspecting officer shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to examine on oath and record the statement of any employees and directors of the InvIT 268[***] parties to the InvIT or 269[ or holdco or SPV(s)] any person responsible for or connected with the activities of InvIT or any other associated person having relevant information pertaining to such InvIT.
(4)The inspecting officer shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to obtain authenticated copies of documents, books, accounts of InvIT, from any person having control or custody of such documents, books or accounts.
268Omitted “or” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
269Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
69
30.The inspecting officer shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection submit an inspection report to the Board:
Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit an interim report.
31.The Board may after consideration of the inspection report and after giving reasonable opportunity of hearing to the InvITs or parties to the InvIT or its representatives or any such person, issue such directions as it deems fit in the interest of securities market or the investors in the nature of,–
(a)requiring the InvIT to delist its units from the stock exchanges and surrender its certificate of registration;
(b)requiring the InvIT to wind up;
(c)requiring the InvIT to sell its assets;
(d)requiring the InvIT or parties to the InvIT to take such action as may be in the interest of the investors;
32.An InvIT or parties to the InvIT or any other person involved in the activity of the InvIT who contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or these regulations or notifications, guidelines, circulars or instructions issued thereunder by the Board shall be liable for one or more actions specified therein including any action provided under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.
32A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject
to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis.
33.In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications or guidelines in the manner as may be appropriate.
271[Power to relax strict enforcement of Regulations
270Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulation, w.e.f. 17-04-2020.
271Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016
33A.The Board may, in the interest of investors or for the development of the securities market, relax the strict enforcement of any requirement of these regulations, if the Board is satisfied that,-
(a)requirement is procedural or technical in nature; or
(b)the requirement may cause undue hardship to investors; or
(c)the disclosure requirement is not relevant for a particular industry or class of listed entities; or
(d)the non-compliance was caused due to factors beyond the control of the issuer; or
any provision of Act(s), Rule(s), regulation(s) under which the listed entity is established or is governed by, is required to be given precedence to.]
34.The Board may lay down framework for InvITs other than the InvITs falling in the categories specified in these regulations.
1.(1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014.
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their notification in the Official Gazette.
2.(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions shall be construed accordingly,–
(a)“Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);
1
(b)“associate” of any person 1[shall be as defined under the Companies Act, 2013 or under the applicable accounting standards and shall also include following],-
(i)any person controlled, directly or indirectly, by the said person;
(ii)any person who controls, directly or indirectly, the said person;
(iii)where the said person is a company or a body corporate, any person(s) who is designated as promoter(s) of the company or body corporate and any other company or body corporate with the same promoter(s);
(iv)where the said person is an individual, any relative of the individual;
(v)2[***]
(vi)3[***]
(vii)4[***]
(viii)5[***]
(c)"Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 of the Act;
(d)“body corporate” shall have the meaning assigned to it in or under sub-section (11) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013;
(e)“bonus issue” means additional units allotted to the unit holders as on the record date fixed for the said purpose, without any cost to the unit holder;
(f)“certificate” means a certificate of registration granted under these regulations;
(g)"change in control" means,-
1Substituted for "includes" by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
2Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior to its omission, sub-clause (v) read as under :
“where the said person is a company or a body corporate or an LLP, its group companies;”
3Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior to its omission, sub-clause (vi) read as under :
“companies or LLPs under the same management;”
4Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior to its omission, sub-clause (vii) read as under :
“where the said person is a REIT, related parties to the REIT;”
5Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior to its omission, sub-clause (viii) read as under :
“any company or LLP or body corporate in which the person or its director(s) or partner(s) hold(s), either individually or collectively, more than fifteen percent of its paid-up equity share capital or partnership interest, as the case may be;”
2
(i)in case of a company or body corporate, change in control where 'control' shall have the meaning as provided in sub-section (27) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013;
(ii)in any other case, change in the controlling interest;
Explanation.─ For the purpose of sub-clause (ii), the expression “controlling interest” means an interest, whether direct or indirect, to the extent of 6[not less] than fifty percent of voting rights or interest;
(h)“company” means a company as defined under sub-section (20) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013;
(i)“completed property” means property for which occupancy certificate has been received from the relevant authority;
(j)“credit rating agency” means a credit rating agency registered with the Board under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999;
(k)“custodian” means a person registered with the Board under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Custodian of Securities) Regulations, 1996;
7[(ka) “debt securities” shall be as defined under Regulation 2(1)(e) of SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008;]
(l)“designated stock exchange” means a recognised stock exchange in which units of a
REIT are listed or proposed to be listed and which is chosen by the REIT as a designated stock exchange for the purpose of a particular issue of the units of the REIT under these regulations:
Provided that where one or more of such stock exchanges have nationwide trading terminals, the REIT shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange:
Provided further that subject to the provisions of this clause, the REIT may choose a different recognised stock exchange as a designated stock exchange for any subsequent issue of units of the REIT under these regulations;
6Substituted for the word “more” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
7Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
3
(m)"floor space index" or "FSI" shall mean the buildable area on a plot of land as specified by the competant authority;
(n)“follow–on offer” means offer of units of a listed REIT to the public for subscription
and includes an offer for sale of REIT units by an existing unit holder to the public;
(o) 8[***]
(p)“form” means any of the forms set out in the Schedule I of these regulations;
9[(pa) "general purposes" include such identified purposes for which no specific amount is allocated or any amount so specified towards general purpose or any such purpose by whatever name called, in the offer document filed with the Board:
Provided that any issue related expenses shall not be considered as a part of general purpose merely because no specific amount has been allocated for such expenses in the offer document filed with the Board;”]
(q)"governing board” in case of an LLP shall mean a group of members assigned by the
LLP to act in a manner similar to the Board of directors in case of a company;“initial offer” means the first offer of units of an REIT to the public for subscription and includes an offer for sale of REIT units by an existing unit holder to the public; 10[“(qa) “holdco” or “holding company” shall mean a company or LLP.,-
(i)in which REIT holds or proposes to hold 11[***] not less than fifty 12[***] per cent. of the equity share capital or interest and which it in turn has made investments in other SPV(s), which ultimately hold the property(ies);
(ii)which is not engaged in any other activity other than holding of the underlying SPV(s), holding of real estate/properties and any other activities
pertaining to and incidental to such holdings;”;
(qb) “initial offer” means the first offer of units of an REIT to the public for subscription and includes an offer for sale of REIT units by an existing unit holder to the public;]
8Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior to its omission, clause (o) read as under :
““follow-on offer document” means any document by which follow-on offer is made to the public;”
9Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
10Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
11Words “controlling interest and” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
12Word “one” omitted ibid.
4
(r) 13[***]
(s)“inspecting officer” means any one or more person appointed by the Board to exercise powers conferred under Chapter VII of these regulations;
(t)“investment management agreement” means an agreement between the trustee and the manager which lays down the roles and responsibilities of the manager towards the REIT;
(u)“listed REIT” means a REIT whose units are listed on a recognized stock exchange;
(v)"LLP" means a limited liability partnership as defined under the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008;
(w)“manager” means a company or LLP or body corporate incorporated in India which manages assets and investments of the REIT and undertakes operational activities of the REIT;
(x)"net asset value” or "NAV" means the value of the REIT 14[assets reduced by the external debt] divided by the number of outstanding units as on a particular date;
(y)“net worth” in relation to a company or a body corporate shall have the meaning assigned to it under sub-section (57) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013;
(za) “occupancy certificate” means a completion certificate, or such other certificate, as the case may be, issued by the competent authority permitting occupation of any property under any law for the time being in force;
(zb) "offer document" means any document described or issued as an offer document including any notice, circular, advertisement or other document inviting offers 15[through a public issue] for the subscription or purchase of units of the REIT and includes initial offer document, follow-on offer document16[, letter of offer in case of rights issue] and any other document as may be specified by the Board;
13Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior to its omission, clause (r) read as under :
““initial offer document” means any documentby which initial offer is made to the public by the REIT;”
14Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
15Substituted for “from the public” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
16Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
5
(zc) “parties to the REIT” shall include the 17[sponsor group(s)], re-designated sponsor(s), manager, and trustee;
(zd) “preferential issue” means an issue of units by a listed REIT to any select person or group of persons on a private placement basis and does not include an offer of units made through a public issue, rights issue, bonus issue, qualified institutions placement or any other issue as may be specified by the Board;
(ze) “public” for the purposes of offer and listing of units means any person other than related party of the REIT or any other person as may be specified by the Board:
Provided that in case any related party to the REIT is a qualified institutional buyer, such person shall be included under the term 'public';
(zf) “public issue” means an initial offer or follow-on offer or any other issue made to the public as may be specified by the Board;
(zg) “qualified institutional buyer” shall have the meaning assigned to it under clause (zd) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the SEBI (Issue Of Capital And Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009;
(zh) “qualified institutions placement” means allotment of units by a listed REIT to qualified institutional buyers on private placement basis in terms of these regulations;
(zi) “real estate” or “property” means land and any permanently attached improvements to it, whether leasehold or freehold and includes buildings, sheds, garages, fences, fittings, fixtures, warehouses, car parks, etc. and any other assets incidental to the ownership of real estate but does not include mortgage:
Provided that any asset falling under the purview of 'infrastructure' as defined vide Notification of Ministry of Finance dated October 07, 2013 including any amendments or additions made thereof shall not be considered as 'real estate' or 'property' for the purpose of these regulations;
18[Notwithstanding the above, following captured within the abovementioned definition of infrastructure shall be considered under “real estate” or “property”,-
17Substituted for “sponsor(s)” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
18Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
6
(i)hotels, hospitals and convention centers, forming part of composite real estate projects, whether rent generating or income generating;
(ii)common infrastructure" for composite real estate projects, industrial parks and SEZ;]
(zj) 19[“real estate assets” means properties held by REIT, on a freehold or leasehold basis, whether directly or through a holdco and/or a special purpose vehicle];
(zk) “recognised stock exchange” means any stock exchange which is recognised under section 4 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956);
(zl) "re-designated sponsor" means any person who has assumed the responsibility of the sponsor as provided under regulation 11 from the person as designated under clause (zt) of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation or from any re-designated sponsor thereafter;
(zm) “REIT” or "Real Estate Investment Trust" shall mean a trust registered as such under these regulations;
(zn) 20[“REIT assets” means real estate assets and any other assets held by the REIT, on a freehold or leasehold basis, whether directly or through a holdco and/or a special purpose vehicle.”];
(zo) 21[“related party” shall be defined under the Companies Act, 2013 or under the applicable accounting standards and shall also include:]
(i)parties to the REIT;
(ii)22[***]
19 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. Prior to the substitution, the definition read as follows:
““real estate assets” means properties owned by REIT whether directly or through a special purpose vehicle”
20Substituted ibid. Prior to the substitution, the definition read as follows:
““REIT assets” means real estate assets and any other assets owned by the REIT whether directly or through a 20[holdco and /or] special purpose vehicle”
21Substituted for ““related party to the REIT” shall include:” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
22Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior to its omission, sub-clause (ii) read as under :
“any unit holder holding, directly or indirectly, more than twenty per cent. of the units of the REIT;”
7
(iii) 23[***] 24[promoters] 25[***], directors and partners of the persons in clause (i) 26[***];
(zp) "rent generating property" means property which has been leased or rented out in accordance with an agreement entered into for the purpose;
(zq) “rights issue” means an offer of units by a listed REIT to the unit holders of the REIT as on the record date fixed for the said purpose;
(zr) “right-of-first-refusal” or "ROFR" of a REIT means the right given to the REIT by a person to enter into a transaction with it before the person is entitled to enter that transaction with any other party;
(zs) "special purpose vehicle" or "SPV" means any company or LLP, -
(i)in which 27[either the REIT or the holdco] holds or proposes to hold 28[***] not less than fifty 29[30[***]] per cent. of the equity share capital or interest;
(ii)which holds not less than eighty per cent. of its assets directly in properties and does not invest in other special purpose vehicles; and
(iii)which is not engaged in any activity other than holding and developing property and any other activity incidental to such holding or development;
(zt) “sponsor” means any person(s) who set(s) up the REIT and designated as such at the time of application made to the Board;
31[“(zta) “sponsor group” – includes:
(i)the sponsor(s);
(ii)in case the sponsor is a body corporate:
a. entities or person(s) which are controlled by such body corporate;
23Omitted “associates,”, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
24Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
25The word “sponsors” was omitted ibid.
26Omitted“and (ii)”, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
27Substituted for “the REIT” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
28Words “controlling interest and” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
29Word “one” omitted ibid.
30Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
31Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
8
b.entities or person(s) who control such body corporate;
c.entities or person(s) which are controlled by person(s) as referred at clause b.
(iii)in case sponsor is an individual:
a.an immediate relative of such individual (i.e., any spouse of that person, or any parent, brother, sister or child of the person or of the spouse); and
b.entities or person(s) which are controlled by such individual;]
32[(ztb) “strategic investor” means, -
a.an infrastructure finance company registered with the Reserve Bank of India as a Non-Banking Financial Company;
b.a Scheduled Commercial Bank;
c.a multilateral 33[and/or] bilateral development financial institution;
d.a systemically important Non-Banking Financial Company registered with the Reserve Bank of India;
e.a foreign portfolio investor,
who invest, either jointly or severally, not less than five per cent. of the total offer size of the REIT or such amount as may be specified by the Board from time to time, subject to the compliance with the applicable provisions, if any, of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules or regulations or guidelines made thereunder;]
(zu) "transferable development rights" or "TDR" shall mean development rights issued by the competent authority under relevant laws in lieu of the area relinquished or surrendered by the owner or developer or by way of declared incentives by the government or authority;
(zv) “trustee” means a person who holds the REIT assets in trust for the benefit of the unit holders, in accordance with these regulations;
(zw) “under-construction property” means a property of which construction is not complete and occupancy certificate has not been received;
(zx) “unit” means beneficial interest of the REIT;
(zy) “unit holder” means any person who owns units of the REIT;
32Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
33Substituted for the word “and” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
9
34[“(zz) “valuer” means any person who is a “registered valuer” under section 247 of the Companies Act, 2013 or as specified by the Board from time to time.]
(zza) 35[***]
(zzb) "value of the REIT assets" means aggregate value of all the assets under the REIT as assessed by the valuer.
15.(1) The Offer document of the REIT shall contain material, true, correct and adequate disclosures to enable the investors to make an informed decision.
(2)Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the offer document shall-
(a)include all information as specified in Schedule III to these regulations or as specified in any circulars or guidelines issued by the Board in this regard;
(b)not be misleading and not contain any untrue statements or mis-statements;
(c)not provide for any guaranteed returns to the investors;
(d)include such other disclosures as may be specified by the Board.
138Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
139Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
32
(3)Any advertisement material relating to any issue of units of the REIT shall not be misleading and shall not contain anything extraneous to the contents of the offer document.
(4)If an advertisement contains positive highlights, it shall also contain risk factors with equal importance in all aspects including print size.
3.(1) No person shall act as a REIT unless it is registered with the Board under these regulations.
(2) An application for grant of certificate of registration as REIT shall be made, by the sponsor 36[on behalf of the trust] in Form A as specified in the Schedule I to these regulations and shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee of such amount and shall be payable in the manner as specified in Schedule II to these regulations.
(3)The Board may, in order to protect the interests of investors, appoint any person to take charge of records, documents of the 37[REIT] and for this purpose, also determine the terms and conditions of such an appointment.
(4)The Board shall take into account requirements as specified in these regulations for the purpose of considering grant of registration.
4.(1) For the purpose of the grant of certificate to 38[the trust], the Board shall consider all matters relevant to the activities as a REIT.
(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, the Board shall consider the following, namely, -
36Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
37Substituted for “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
38Substituted ibid for “an applicant”.
11
(a)the applicant is 39[the sponsor on behalf of] trust and the instrument of trust is in the form of a deed duly registered in India under the provisions of the Registration Act, 1908;
(b)the trust deed has its main objective as undertaking activity of REIT in accordance with these regulations and includes responsibilities of the Trustee in accordance with regulation 9;
(c)persons have been designated as sponsor(s), manager and trustee under these regulations and all such persons are separate entities;
(d)with regard to sponsor(s),-
(i)40[each sponsor shall hold or propose] to hold not less than five per cent. of the number of units of the REIT on post-initial offer basis;
41[(ia) each sponsor and sponsor group shall be clearly identified in the application of registration to the Board and in the offer document/placement memorandum, as applicable:
Provided that, for each sponsor group not less than one person shall be identified as a sponsor;]
42[Provided further that, of the entities categorized as sponsor group, only the following entities may be considered:
a)a person or entity who is directly or indirectly holding an interest or shareholding in any of the assets or SPVs or holdcos proposed to be transferred to the REIT.
b)a person or entity who is directly or indirectly holding units of the REIT on post-issue basis.
c)a person or entity whose experience is being utilized by the sponsor for meeting with the eligibility conditions required under sub-clause (iii) of clause (d) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 4 of these regulations.]
39Substituted for “a” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
40Substituted for “there are not more than three sponsors each holding or proposing” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
41Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
42Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
12
(ii)the sponsor(s), on a collective basis, have a net worth of not less than one hundred crore rupees:
Provided that each sponsor has a net worth of not less than twenty crore rupees; and
(iii)the sponsor or its associate(s) has not less than five years experience in development of real estate or fund management in the real estate industry:
Provided that where the sponsor is a developer, at least two projects of the sponsor have been completed;
(e)with regard to the manager,-
(i)the manager has a net worth of not less than ten crore rupees if the manager is a body corporate or a company or net tangible assets of value not less than ten crore rupees in case the manager is a LLP;
(ii)the manager or its associate has not less than five years experience in fund management or advisory services or property management in the real estate industry or in development of real estate;
(iii)the manager has not less than two key personnel who each have not less than five years experience in fund management or advisory services or property management in the real estate industry or in development of real estate;
(iv)the manager has not less than half, of its directors in the case of a company or of members of the governing Board in case of an LLP, as independent and not directors or members of the governing Board 43[of the manager] of another REIT; and
(v)the manager has entered into an investment management agreement with the trustee which provides for the responsibilities of the manager in accordance with regulation 10;
(f)with regard to the trustee,-
(i)the trustee is registered with the Board under SEBI(Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993 and is not an associate of the sponsor(s) or manager; and
43 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
13
(ii)the trustee has such wherewithal with respect to infrastructure, personnel, etc. to the satisfaction of the Board and in accordance with circulars or guidelines as may be specified by the Board;
(g)no unit holder of the REIT enjoys 44[superior] voting or any other rights over another unit holder 45[and there are no multiple classes of units of REIT:]
46[Notwithstanding the above, subordinate units may be issued only to the sponsors and its associates, where such subordinate units shall carry only inferior voting or any other rights compared to other units;]
(h)47[***]
(i)the applicant has clearly described at the time of application for registration, details pertaining to proposed activities of the REIT;
(j)the 48[REIT] and parties to the REIT are fit and proper persons based on the criteria as specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008;
(k)whether any previous application for grant of certificate by the 49[REIT or the parties to the REIT or their directors/members of governing board] has been rejected by the Board;
(l)whether any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board or any other regulatory authority against the 50[REIT or the parties to the REIT or their directors/members of governing board] under any Act or the regulations or circulars or guidelines made thereunder.
44Substituted for “preferential” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
45Substituted for “;” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
46Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
47Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior to its omission, clause (h) read as under :
“there are no multiple classes of units of REIT;”
48Substituted for “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
5.(1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish any such information or clarification as may be required by it for the purpose of processing of the application.
(2)The Board, if it so desires, may require the applicant or any authorized representative to appear before the Board for personal representation in connection with the grant of certificate.
6. (1) The Board on being satisfied that the 51[trust] fulfils, the requirements specified in regulation 4 shall send intimation to the [trust] and on receipt of the payment of registration fees as specified in Schedule II, grant certificate of registration in Form B under Schedule I.
(2)The registration may be granted with such conditions as may be deemed appropriate by the Board.
7.The certificate granted under regulation 6 shall, inter-alia, be subject to the following conditions, namely,-
(a)the REIT shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations;
(b)the REIT shall forthwith inform the Board in writing, if any information or particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be false or misleading in any material particular or if there is any material change in the information already submitted;
(c)the REIT and parties to the REIT shall satisfy with the conditions specified in regulation 4 at all times;
(d)the REIT and parties to the REIT shall comply, at all times, with the Code of conduct as specified in the Schedule VI, wherever applicable.
Procedure where registration is refused.
51Substituted for “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
8.(1) After considering an application made under regulation 3, if the Board is of the opinion that a certificate should not be granted to the 52[trust], it may reject the application after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
9.(1) The trustee shall hold the REIT assets in trust for the benefit of the unit holders in accordance with the trust deed and these regulations.
(2)The Trustee shall enter into an investment management agreement with the manager on behalf of the REIT.
(3)The trustee shall oversee activities of the manager in the interest of the unit holders, ensure that the manager complies with regulation 10 and shall obtain compliance certificate from the manager in the form as may be specified on a quarterly basis.
(4)The trustee shall ensure that the manager complies with the reporting and disclosures requirements in these regulations and in case of any delay or discrepancy, require the manager to rectify the same on an urgent basis.
(5)The trustee shall review the transactions carried out between the manager and its associates and where the manager has advised that there may be a conflict of interest, shall obtain confirmation from a practising chartered accountant 53[or a valuer, as applicable,] that such transaction is on arm's length basis.
(6)The trustee shall periodically review the status of unit holders' complaints and their redressal undertaken by the manager.
52Substituted for “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
53Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
16
(7)The trustee shall make distributions in accordance with sub-regulation (16) of regulation 18 and ensure that the manager makes timely declaration of distributions to the unit holders.
(8)The trustee may require the manager to set up such systems and submit such reports to the trustees, as may be necessary for effective monitoring of the performance and functioning of the REIT.
(9)The trustee shall ensure that subscription amount is kept in a separate bank account in name of the REIT and is only utilized for adjustment against allotment of units or refund of money to the applicants till the time such units are listed.
(10)The trustee shall ensure that the remuneration of the valuer is not linked to or based on the value of the asset being valued.
(11)The trustee shall ensure that the manager convenes meetings of the unit holders in accordance with these regulations and oversee the voting by unitholders and declare outcome of the voting.
(12)The trustee may take up with the Board or with the designated stock exchange, any matter which has been approved in an annual meeting or special meeting, if the matter requires such action.
(13)In case of any change in manager due to removal or otherwise,-
(a)prior to such change, the trustee shall obtain approval from unit holders in accordance with regulation 22 and approval from the Board;
(b)the trustee shall appoint the new manager within three months from the date of termination of the earlier investment management agreement;
(c)the previous manager shall continue to act as such at the discretion of trustee till such time as new manager is appointed;
(d)the trustee shall ensure that the new manager shall stand substituted as a party in all the documents to which the earlier manager was a party;
(e)the trustee shall ensure that the earlier manager continues to be liable for all its acts of omissions and commissions notwithstanding such termination.
(14)The trustee shall obtain prior approval from the unit holders in accordance with regulation 22 and from the Board in case of change in control of the manager.
17
(15)The trustee 54[of the REIT” shall be substituted] shall not invest in units of the REIT in which it is designated as the trustee.
(16)The trustee shall ensure that the activity of the REIT is being operated in accordance with the provisions of the trust deed, these regulations, the offer document and if any discrepancy is noticed, shall inform the same to the Board immediately in writing.
(17)The trustee shall provide to the Board and to the designated stock exchange such information as may be sought by the Board or by the designated stock exchange pertaining to the activity of the REIT.
10.(1) The manager shall make the investment decisions with respect to the underlying assets of the REIT including any further investment or divestment of the assets.
(2)The manager shall ensure that the real estate assets of the REIT or 55[holdco and/or] SPV have proper legal and marketable titles and that all the material contracts including rental or lease agreements entered into on behalf of REITs or 56[holdco and/or] SPV are legal, valid, binding and enforceable by and on behalf of the REIT or 57[holdco and/or] SPV.
(3)The manager shall ensure that the investments made by the REIT are in accordance with the investment conditions specified in regulation 18 and in accordance with the investment strategy of the REIT.
(4)The manager shall undertake management of the REIT assets including lease management, maintenance of the assets, regular structural audits, regular safety audits, etc. either directly or through the appointment and supervision of appropriate agents.
(5)The manager, in consultation with trustee, shall appoint the valuer(s), auditor, registrar and transfer agent, merchant banker, custodian and any other intermediary or service provider or agent for managing the assets of the REIT or for offer and listing of its units or any other activity pertaining to the REIT in a timely manner and in accordance with these regulations.
54Substituted for “and its associates” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
55Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
56Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
57Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
18
(6)The manager shall appoint an auditor for a period of not more than five consecutive years: Provided that the auditor, not being an individual, may be reappointed for a period of another five consecutive years, subject to approval of unit-holders in the annual meeting.
(7)The manager shall arrange for adequate insurance coverage for the real estate assets of the REIT:
Provided that in case of assets held by real estate assets are adequately insured.
(8)If the REIT invests in under-construction properties as per these regulations, the manager-
(a)may undertake the development of the properties, either directly or through the SPV, or appoint any other person for development of such properties; and
(b)shall oversee the progress of development, approval status and other aspects of the properties upto its completion.
(9)The manager shall ensure that it has adequate infrastructure and sufficient key personnel with adequate experience and qualification to undertake management of the REIT at all times.
(10)The manager 59[and the merchant banker(s) shall] shall be responsible for,-
(a)filing 60[***] offer document with the Board and the designated stock exchange within the specified time period;
(b)obtaining in-principle approval 61[and final listing and trading approvals] from the designated stock exchange;
(c)dealing with all matters relating to issue and listing of the units of the REIT as specified in Chapter IV.
(11)The manager 62[and the merchant banker(s),] shall ensure that disclosures made in the offer document or any other document as may be specified by the Board contain material, true, correct and adequate disclosures and are in accordance with these regulations and guidelines or circulars issued thereunder.
58Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
59Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
60Omitted “the draft and final”by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
61Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
62Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
19
(12)The manager shall declare distributions to the unit holders in accordance with the sub- regulation (16) of regulation 18.
(13)The manager shall ensure adequate and timely redressal of all unit holders' grievances pertaining to activities of the REIT.
(14)The manager shall ensure that the disclosures to the unit holders, Board, trustees and designated stock exchange are adequate, timely and in accordance with these regulations and guidelines or circulars issued thereunder.
(15)The manager shall provide to the Board and to the designated stock exchanges any such information as may be sought by the Board or the designated stock exchange pertaining to the activities of the REIT.
(16)The manager shall ensure that adequate controls are in place to ensure segregation of its activity as manager of the REIT from its other activities.
(17)The manager or its associates shall not obtain any commission or rebate or any other remuneration, by whatever name called, arising out of transactions pertaining to the REIT other than as specified in the offer document or any other document as may be specified by the Board for the purpose of issue of units.
(18)The manager shall submit to the trustee,-
(a)quarterly reports on the activities of the REIT including receipts for all funds received by it and for all payments made, position on compliance with these regulations, specifically including compliance with regulations 18,19 and 20, performance report, status of development of under-construction properties, within thirty days of end of such quarter;
(b)valuation reports as required under these regulations within fifteen days of the receipt of the valuation report from the valuer;
(c)decision to acquire or sell or develop any property or expand existing completed properties along with rationale for the same;
(d)details of any action which requires approval from the unit holders as required under the regulations;
20
(e)details of any other material fact including change of its directors, any legal proceedings that may have a significant bearing on the activity of the REIT within seven working days of such action.
(19)In case the manager fails to timely submit to the trustee information or reports as specified under sub-regulation (18) of this regulation or sub-regulation (8) of regulation 9, the trustee shall intimate the same to the Board and the Board may take action, as it deems fit.
(20)The manager shall coordinate with trustee, as may be necessary, with respect to operations of the REIT.
(21)The manager shall ensure that the valuation of the REIT assets is done by the valuer(s) in accordance with regulation 21.
(22)The manager shall ensure that computation of NAV of the REIT is based on the valuation done by the valuer and is declared no later than fifteen days from the date of valuation 63[ to the stock exchange(s)] and such computation shall be done and declared not less than once every six months.
(23)The manager shall ensure that the audit of accounts of the REIT by the auditor is done not less than 64[ once in a year] and such report is submitted to the designated stock exchange within 65[sixty] days of end of such financial year ending March 31st 66[***].
(24)The manager may appoint a custodian in order to provide such custodial services as may be authorised by the trustees and oversee activities of such custodian.
(25)The manager shall place, before its board of directors in the case of a company or the governing board in case of an LLP, a report on activity and performance of the REIT every three months.
(26)The manager shall designate an employee or director as the compliance officer for monitoring of compliance with these regulations and circulars issued thereunder and intimating the Board in case of any violation.
63Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
64Substituted for “twice annually”by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
65Substituted for “forty five” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
66Omitted “and half-year ending on September 30th”by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
21
(27)The manager shall convene meetings of the unit holders in accordance with regulation 22 and maintain records pertaining to the meetings in accordance with regulation 26.
(28)The manager shall ensure the compliance with laws, as may be applicable, of the State or the local body with respect to the activity of the REIT including local building laws.
11.(1) The sponsor(s) 68[and sponsor group(s)] shall set up the REIT and appoint the trustee of the REIT.
(2)The sponsor(s) 69[and sponsor group(s)] shall transfer or undertake to transfer, subject to a binding agreement and adequate disclosures in the initial offer 70[document], 71[their] entire shareholding or interest 72[and rights] in the 73[holdco and/or] SPV or entire ownership of the real estate assets to the REIT prior to allotment of units of the REIT to the applicants:
Provided that this shall not apply to the extent of any mandatory holding of shares or interest 74[and rights] in the 75[holdco and/or] SPV by the sponsor(s) 76[and sponsor group(s)] as required 77[under] any Act or regulations or circulars or guidelines of government or regulatory authority as specified from time to time.
(3) With respect to holding of units in the REIT, 78[***]-
67Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
68Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
69Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
70Word ‘focument’ corrected to read as ‘document’ by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
71Substituted for “its” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
72Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
73Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
74Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
75Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
76Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
77Inserted ibid.
78Omitted“the sponsor(s) shall,” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
22
(a) 79[the sponsor(s) and sponsor group(s) shall collectively] hold a minimum of twenty five percent. of the total units of the REIT after initial offer on a post-issue basis:
Provided that the minimum sponsor80[(s) and sponsor group(s)] holding specified in this clause shall be held for a period of atleast three years from the date of listing of such units:
Provided further that any holding of the sponsor 81[(s) and sponsor group(s)] exceeding the minimum holding as specified in this clause, shall be held for a period of atleast one year from the date of listing of such units;
(b) 82[the sponsor(s) and sponsor group(s)] together hold not less than fifteen per cent. of the outstanding units of the listed REIT at all times;
(c) 83[each of the sponsor] individually 84[***] 85[shall] hold not less than five per cent. of the outstanding units of the listed REIT at all times.
(4)If the sponsor(s) 86[and sponsor group(s)] propose(s) to sell its units below the limit specified in clauses (b) or (c) of sub-regulation (3) of this regulation-
(a)such units shall be sold only after a period of three years from the date of listing of the units;
(b)prior to sale of such units, the sponsor(s) 87[ and sponsor group(s)] shall arrange for another person(s) or entity(ies) to act as the re-designated sponsor(s) where the re-designated sponsor shall satisfy the eligibility norms for the sponsor as specified under 88[regulation 4]:
Provided that such units may also be sold to an existing sponsor;
(c)The 89[***]proposed redesignated sponsor shall obtain approval from the unit holders or provide option to exit to the unit holders in accordance with guidelines as may be specified:
79Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
80Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
81Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
82Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
83Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
84Omitted“,” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
85Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
86Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
87Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
88Substituted for the word and number “regulation 3” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
89Omitted “sponsor/”by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.
23
Provided that this clause shall not apply where the units are proposed to be sold to an existing sponsor90[or member of sponsor group].
12.The valuer(s) shall comply with the following conditions at all times-
(a)The valuer(s) shall ensure that the valuation of the REIT assets is impartial, true and fair and is in accordance with regulation 21;
(b)The valuer(s) shall ensure adequate and robust internal controls to ensure the integrity of its valuation reports;
(c)The valuer(s) shall ensure that it has sufficient key personnel with adequate experience and qualification to perform property valuations at all times;
(d)The valuer(s) shall ensure that it has sufficient financial resources to enable it to conduct its business effectively and meet its liabilities;
(e)The valuer(s) and any of its employees involved in valuing of the assets of the REIT, shall not,-
(i)invest in units of the REIT or in the assets being valued; and
(ii)sell the assets or units of REITs held prior to being appointed as the valuer,
till the time such person is designated as valuer of such REIT and not less than six months after ceasing to be valuer of the REIT;
(f)The valuer(s) shall conduct the valuation of the REIT assets with transparency and fairness and shall render, at all times, high standards of service, exercise due diligence, ensure proper care and exercise independent professional judgment;
(g) The valuer(s) shall act with independence, objectivity and impartiality in performing the valuation;
90Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
24
(h)The valuer(s) shall discharge its duties towards the REIT in an efficient and competent manner, utilizing his knowledge, skills and experience in best possible way to complete given assignment;
(i)The valuer(s) shall not accept remuneration, in any form, for performing a valuation of the REIT assets from any person other than the REIT or its authorized representative;
(j)The valuer(s) shall before accepting any assignment, 91[from any related party to the REIT, shall] disclose to the REIT any direct or indirect consideration which the valuer may have in respect of such assignment;
(k)The valuer shall disclose to the trustee, any pending business transactions, contracts under negotiation and other arrangements with the manager or any other party whom the REIT is contracting with and any other factors that may interfere with the valuer’s ability to give an independent and professional valuation of the property;
(l)The valuer(s) shall not make false, misleading or exaggerated claims in order to secure assignments;
(m)The valuer(s) shall not provide misleading valuation, either by providing incorrect information or by withholding relevant information;
(n)The valuer(s) shall not accept an assignment that includes reporting of the outcome based on predetermined opinions and conclusions required by the REIT;
13.(1) The auditor shall conduct audit of the accounts of the REIT and prepare the audit report based on the accounts examined by him and after taking into account the relevant accounting and auditing standards, as may be specified by the Board.
91Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
25
(2)The auditor shall, to the best of his information and knowledge, ensure that the accounts and financial statements, including profit or loss and cash flow for the period and such other matters as may be specified, give a true and fair view of the state of the affairs.
(3)The auditor shall have a right of access at all times to the books of accounts and vouchers pertaining to activities of the REIT.
14.(1) A REIT shall make an initial offer of its units by way of public issue only.
(2) No initial offer of units by the REIT shall be made unless,-
(a)the REIT is registered with the Board under these regulations;
(b)the value of 93[the REIT assets] is not less than five hundred crore rupees;
Explanation.- Such value shall mean the value of the specific portion of the holding of REIT in the underlying assets or 94[] SPVs;
95[(ba) the minimum number of unit holders other than sponsor(s), its related parties and its associates forming part of public shall be not less than two hundred;]
(c)96[***]
92Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
93Substituted for “all the assets owned by REIT” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
94Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
95Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
96Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior to its omission, sub- clause (c) read as under :
“the units proposed to be offered to the public is not less than twenty five per cent. of the total of the outstanding units of the REIT and the units being offered by way of the offer document:
Provided that for initial offer of value greater than five hundred crore rupees, if prior to the initial offer units of the REIT are held by the public, the units proposed to be offered to the public shall be calculated after reducing such existing units for satisfying the aforesaid percentage requirement;”
26
(d) the offer size is not less than two hundred and fifty crore rupees:
Provided that the requirement of ownership of assets under clause (b) and size of REIT under clause (d) may be complied 97[at any point of time before allotment of units in accordance with offer document/placement memorandum] subject to a binding agreement with the relevant party(ies) that 98[such] requirements shall be fulfilled prior to 99[such] allotment of units100[and], a declaration to the Board and 101[to] the designated stock exchanges to that effect and adequate disclosures in this regard in the 102[***] offer document.
103[(2A) For an REIT raising funds through an initial offer, the units proposed to be offered to the public through such initial offer
(a)shall be not less than twenty five per cent. of the total of the outstanding units of the REIT and the units being offered by way of the offer document, if the post issue capital of the REIT calculated at offer price is less than rupees one thousand six hundred crore:
Provided that the requirement at sub-clause (a) shall be complied along with the requirement under Regulation 14 (2)(d) of the REIT Regulations.
(b)shall be of the value of at least Rs 400 crore, if the post issue capital of the REIT calculated at offer price is equal to or more than rupees one thousand six hundred crore and less than rupees four thousand crore;
(c)shall be not less than ten per cent. of the total of the outstanding units of the REIT and the units being offered by way of the offer document, if the post issue capital of the REIT calculated at offer price is equal to or more than rupees four thousand crore:
Provided that any units offered to sponsor or the manager or their related parties or their associates shall not be counted towards units offered to the public:
97Substituted for “with after initial offer” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
98Substituted for “the” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
99Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
100Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
101Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
102Omitted “initial” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
103Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
27
Provided further that any listed REIT which has public holding below twenty five per cent on account of sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) above, such REIT shall increase its public holding to at least twenty five per cent, within a period of three years from the date of listing pursuant to initial offer.]
(3)Any subsequent issue of units by the REIT may be by way of follow-on offer, preferential allotment, qualified institutional placement, rights issue, bonus issue, offer for sale or any other mechanism and in the manner as may be specified by the Board.
(4)REIT, through the 104[merchant banker], shall file a draft offer document 105[along with the fee as specified in Schedule II,] with the designated stock exchange(s) and the Board, not less than 106[thirty] working days before filing the 107[***] offer document with the designated stock exchange 108[and the Board].
(5)The draft offer document filed with the Board shall be made public, for comments, if any,
109[***] by hosting it on the websites of the Board, designated stock exchanges and merchant bankers associated with the issue 110[, for a period of not less than twenty one days].
(6)The 111[draft offer document and/ or offer document] shall be accompanied by a due diligence certificate signed by the 112[***] lead merchant banker.
(7)The Board may communicate its comments to the lead merchant banker and, in the interest of investors, may require the lead merchant banker to carry out such modifications in the draft offer document as it deems fit.
(8)The lead merchant banker shall ensure that all comments received from the Board on the draft offer document are suitably taken into account prior to the filing of the offer document with the designated stock exchanges.
104Substituted for “manager” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
105Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
106Substituted for “twenty one” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
107Omitted “final” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
108Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
109Omitted “to be submitted to the Board, within a period of at least ten days,” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
110Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
111Substituted for “draft and final offer document” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
112Omitted “Manager and” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
28
(9)In case no 113[observations] are 114[issued] by the Board 115[on] the draft offer document within twenty one working days from the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the lead merchant bankers or manager, the REIT may 116[file] the 117[***] offer document or follow-on offer document 118[with the Board and the exchange(s)]:
119[***]
(10)The 120[***] offer document shall be filed with the designated stock exchanges and the Board not less than five working days before opening of the offer 121[***].
(11)The initial offer or follow-on offer 122[or rights issue] shall be made by the REIT within a period of not more than 123[one year] from the date of 124[***] issuance of observations by the Board 125[***]:
Provided that if the initial offer or follow-on offer 126[or rights issue] is not made within the specified time period, a fresh 127[draft] offer document shall be filed.
113Substituted for “modifications” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
114Substituted for “suggested” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
115Substituted for “in” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
116Substituted for “issue” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
117Omitted “final” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
118Substituted for “to the public” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
119Omitted “Provided that prior to issue of such final offer document, it shall be filed with the designated stock exchanges and with the Board.” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
120Omitted “final” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
121Omitted “and such filing with the Board shall be accompanied by filing fees as specified under Schedule II” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
122Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
123Substituted for “six months” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
124Omitted “last” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
125Omitted “, if any or if no observations have been issued by the Board, within a period of not more than six
months from the date of filing of offer document with the designated stock exchanges” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
126Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
127Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
29
128[Provided further that the REIT shall not be required to file draft offer document with the Board in case of a fast track rights issue, subject to the fulfillment of the conditions as specified by the Board from time to time.]
(12)The REIT may invite for subscriptions and allot units to any person, whether resident or foreign:
Provided that in case of foreign investors, such investment shall be subject to guidelines as may be specified by Reserve Bank of India and the government from time to time.
(13)The application for subscription shall be accompanied by a statement containing the abridged version of the offer document, detailing the risk factors and summary of the terms of issue.
129[(14) The minimum subscription from any investor in initial and/or public offer shall be rupees fifty thousand.]
(15)Initial offer and follow-on offer shall not be open for subscription for a period of more than thirty days.
(16)In case of over-subscriptions, the REIT shall allot units to the applicants on a proportionate basis rounded off to the nearest integer subject to minimum subscription amount per subscriber as specified in sub-regulation (14).
(17)The REIT shall allot units or refund application money, as the case may be, within twelve working days from the date of closing of the issue.
(18)The REIT shall issue units only in dematerialized form to all the applicants.
(19)The price of REIT units issued by way of public issue shall be determined through the book building process or any other process in accordance with the circulars or guidelines issued by the Board and in the manner as may be specified by the Board.
(20)The REIT shall refund money, -
128Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 02.03.2020
129Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation 14 read as follows:
“(14) Under both the initial offer and follow-on public offer, the REIT shall not accept subscription of an amount less than two lakh rupees from an applicant.”
30
(a)to all applicants in case it fails to collect subscription amount of exceeding 130[ninety] per cent. of the 131[fresh] issue size as specified in the 132[***] offer document 133[***];
(b)to applicants to the extent of oversubscription in case the moneys received is in excess of the extent of over-subscription as specified in the 134[***] offer document:
Provided that right to retain such over subscription cannot exceed twenty five per cent. of the issue size;
135[Provided further, that the offer document shall contain adequate disclosures towards the utilisation of such oversubscription proceeds, if any, and such proceeds retained on account of oversubscription shall not be utilised towards general purposes.]
(c)to all applicants in case the number of subscribers to the initial offer forming part of the public is less than two hundred.
(21)If the manager fails to allot, or list the units, or refund the money within the specified time, then the manager shall pay interest to the unit holders at fifteen per cent. per annum, till such allotment/ listing/refund and such interest shall not be recovered in the form of fees or any other form payable to the manager by the REIT.
(22)Units may be offered for sale to public,-
(a)if such units have been held by the existing unitholders for a period of at least one year prior to the filing of draft offer document with the Board:
Provided that the holding period for the equity shares 136[, compulsorily convertible securities (from the date such securities are fully paid-up)] or partnership interest in the 137[holdco and/or] SPV against which such units have been received shall be
130Substituted for “seventy five” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
131Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
132Omitted “initial” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
133Omitted “or follow-on offer document” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
134Omitted “initial offer document or follow-on” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
135Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
136Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
137Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
31
considered for the purpose of calculation of one year period referred in this sub- regulation:
138[Provided further that the compulsorily convertible securities, whose holding period has been included for the purpose of calculation for offer for sale, shall be converted to equity shares of the holdco or SPV, prior to filing of offer document.]
(b)subject to other circulars or guidelines as may be specified by the Board in this regard.
139[(22A) The amount for general purposes, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft offer document filed with the Board, shall not exceed Ten per cent of the amount raised by the REIT by issuance of units.]
(23)If the REIT fails to make its initial offer within three years from the date of registration with the Board, it shall surrender its certificate of registration to the Board and cease to operate as a REIT:
Provided that the Board, if it deems fit, may extend the period by another one year:
16.(1) After the initial offer it shall be mandatory for all units of REITs to be listed on a recognized stock exchange having nationwide trading terminals within a period of twelve working days from the date of closure of the offer.
(2)The listing of the units of the REIT shall be in accordance with the listing agreement entered into between the REIT and the designated stock exchange.
140[(2A) In the event of non-receipt of listing permission from the stock exchange(s) or withdrawal of Observation Letter issued by the Board, wherever applicable, the units shall not be eligible for listing and the REIT shall be liable to refund the subscription monies, if any, to the respective allottees immediately alongwith interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum from the date of allotment.]
(3)The units of the REIT listed in recognized stock exchanges shall be traded, cleared and settled in accordance with the bye-laws of concerned stock exchanges and such conditions as may be specified by the Board.
(4)Trading lot for the purpose of trading of units of the REIT shall 141[consist of 100 units].
(5)The REIT shall redeem units only by way of a buy-back or at the time of delisting of units.
(6)The units of REIT shall be remain listed on the designated stock exchange unless delisted under regulation 17.
140Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
141Substituted for “be one lakh rupees” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019.
33
(7)The minimum public holding for the units of the listed REIT shall be 142[ in accordance with the sub-regulation (2A) of Regulation 14], failing which action may be taken as may be specified by the Board and by the designated stock exchange including delisting of units under regulation 17:
Provided that in case of breach of the conditions specified in this sub-regulation, the trustee may provide a period of six months to the manager to rectify the same, failing which the manager shall apply for delisting under Regulation 17.
(8)Any person other than the sponsor(s) holding units of the REIT prior to initial offer shall hold the units for a period of not less than one year from the date of listing of the units subject to circulars or guidelines as may be specified by the Board.
(9)The Board and designated stock exchanges may specify any other requirements pertaining to listing and trading of units of the REIT by issuance of guidelines or circulars.
17.(1) The manager shall apply for delisting of units of the REIT to the Board and the designated stock exchanges if,-
(a)the public holding falls below the specified limit under sub-regulation (7) of regulation 16;
(b)143[***]
(c)if there are no projects or assets remaining under the REIT for a period exceeding six months and REIT does not propose to invest in any project in future:
Provided that, the period may be extended by further six months, with the approval of unit holders in the manner as specified in regulation 22;
(d)the Board or the designated stock exchanges require such delisting for violation of the listing agreement or these regulations or the Act;
142Substituted for “twenty five per cent. the total number of outstanding units at all times, and the number of unit holders of the REIT forming part of the public shall be two hundred at all times” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
143Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior to its omission, sub- clause (b) read as under :
“the number of unit holders of the REIT forming part of the public falls below two hundred;”
34
(e)the sponsor(s) or trustee requests such delisting and such request has been approved by unit holders in accordance with sub-regulation (6) of regulation 22;
(f)unit holders apply for such delisting in accordance with regulation 22;
(g)the Board or the designated stock exchanges require such delisting for violation of the listing agreement, these regulations or the Act or in the interest of the unit holders.
(2)The Board and the designated stock exchanges may consider such application for approval or rejection as may be appropriate in the interest of the unit holders.
(3)The Board, instead of requiring delisting of the units, if it deems fit, may provide additional time to the REIT or parties to the REIT to comply with regulations.
(4)The Board may reject the application for delisting and take any other action, as it deems fit, under these regulations or the Act for violation of the listing agreement or these regulations or the Act.
(5)The procedure for delisting of units of REIT including provision of exit option to the unit holders shall be in accordance with the listing agreement and in accordance with procedure as may be specified by the Board and by the designated stock exchanges from time to time.
(6)The Board may require the REIT to wind up and sell its assets in order to redeem units of the unit holders for the purpose of delisting of units and the Board may through circulars or guidelines specify the manner of such winding up or sale.
18.(1) The Investment by a REIT shall only be in 144[holdco and/or] SPVs or properties or securities or TDR in India in accordance with these regulations and in accordance with the investment strategy as detailed in the offer document as may be amended subsequently.
(2)The REIT shall not invest in vacant land or agricultural land or mortgages other than mortgage backed securities:
Provided that this shall not apply to any land which is contiguous and extension of an existing project being implemented in stages.
(3)The REIT may invest in properties through SPVs subject to the following,-
(a)no other shareholder or partner of the SPV shall 145[exercise] any rights that prevents the REIT from complying with the provisions of these regulations 146[and an agreement 147[has been] entered into with such shareholders or partners to that effect prior to investment in the SPV]:
148[Provided that the shareholders’ agreement or partnership agreement shall provide for an appropriate mechanism for resolution of disputes between the REIT and the other shareholders or partners in the SPV:
Provided further that the provisions of these regulations shall prevail in case of inconsistencies between such agreement(s) and the obligations cast upon a REIT under these regulations.]
149[(b) the manager, in consultation with the trustee, shall appoint atleast such number of nominees on the board of directors or the governing board of such SPVs, as applicable, which are in proportion to the shareholding or holding interest of the REIT in the SPV;]
144Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
145Substituted for the word “have” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
146Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
147Substituted for the words “shall be” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
148Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
149Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. Prior to the substitution, the clause read as:
“(b) the manager, in consultation with the trustee, shall appoint the majority of the Board of directors or governing board of such SPVs[, as applicable;”
36
(c)the manager shall ensure that in every meeting including annual general meeting of the SPV, the voting of the REIT is exercised 150[***].
151[(3A) The REIT may invest in properties through holdco subject 152[to] the following,-
(a)the ultimate holding interest of the REIT in the underlying SPV(s) is not less than twenty six per cent;
(b)no other shareholder or partner of the holdco or the SPV(s) shall 153[exercise] any rights that prevent the REIT, the holdco or the SPV(s) from complying with the provisions of these regulations and an agreement 154[has been] entered into with such shareholders or partners to that effect prior to investment in the holdco and/or SPVs:
155[Provided that the shareholders’ agreement or partnership agreement shall provide for an appropriate mechanism for resolution of disputes between the REIT and the other shareholders or partners in the holdco and/or SPV; Provided further that the provisions of these regulations shall prevail in case of inconsistencies between such agreement(s) and the obligations cast upon a REIT under these regulations.]
156[(c) the manager, in consultation with the Trustee, shall appoint atleast such number of nominees on the board of directors or the governing board of the holdco and/or the SPV, which are in proportion to the shareholding or holding interest of the REIT/holdco in the SPV;]
(d)the manager shall ensure that in every meeting including annual general meeting of the holdco and/or SPV(s), the voting of the REIT is exercised;]
150Omitted “subject to provisions of Companies Act, 2013” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
151Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
152Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
153Substituted for the word “have” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
154Substituted ibid for the words “shall be”.
155Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
156Substituted ibid. Prior to the substitution, the clause read as:
“(c) the manager, in consultation with the Trustee, shall appoints the majority of the Board of directors or governing board of the holdco and/or SPV(s);”
37
(4)Not less than eighty per cent. of value of the REIT assets shall be invested 157[***] in completed and rent 158[and/or income] generating properties subject to the following,-
(a)if the investment has been made through a 159[holdco and/or] SPV, whether by way of equity or debt or equity linked instruments or partnership interest, only the portion of direct investments in properties by such 160[ holdco and/or] SPVs shall be considered under this sub-regulation and the remaining portion shall be included under sub-regulation (5);
(b)if any project is implemented in stages, the part of the project which is completed and 161[rent and/or income generating] shall be considered under this sub- regulation and the remaining portion including any contiguous land as specified under proviso to sub-regulation (2) shall be included under clause (a) of sub- regulation (5).
(5)Not more than twenty per cent. of value of the REIT assets shall be invested 162[***] in assets other than as provided in sub-regulation (4) and such other investment shall only be in,-
(a)properties, 163[whether directly or through a company or LLP,] 164[***] which are:
(i)under-construction properties which shall be held by the REIT for not less than three years after completion;
(ii)under-construction properties which are a part of the existing income generating properties owned by the REIT which shall be held by the REIT for not less than three years after completion;
(iii)completed and not rent generating properties which shall be held by the REIT for not less than three years from date of purchase;
157Omitted “proportionate to the holding of the REITs” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
158Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
159Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
160Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
161Substituted for the words “rent-generating” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
162Omitted “proportionate to the holding of the REITs” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
163Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
164Omitted “in which not more than ten per cent. of value of the REIT assets shall be invested,” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
38
(b)listed or unlisted debt of companies or body corporate in real estate sector:
Provided that this shall not include any investment made in debt of the 165[holdco and/or SPVs];
(c)mortgage backed securities;
(d)equity shares of companies 166[which are] listed on a recognized stock exchange in India which derive not less than seventy five per cent. of their operating income from real estate activity as per the audited accounts of the previous financial year;
167[(da) unlisted equity shares of companies which derive not less than seventy five per cent. of their operating income from real estate activity as per the audited accounts of the previous financial year:
Provided that the investments, made through unlisted equity shares of a company, in under construction properties and/or completed and not rent generating properties, shall be in compliance with clause (a) of this sub- regulation.]
(e)government securities;
(f)unutilized FSI of a project where it has already made investment;
(g)TDR acquired for the purpose of utilization with respect to a project where it has already made investment;
(h)money market instruments or cash equivalents.
168[(5A) The investment conditions as specified at sub-regulation (4) and (5) of regulation 18 shall be complied at the time of Offer document and thereafter.]
165Substituted for “SPV” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
166Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
167Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
168Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
39
(6)Not less than 169[fifty one] per cent. of the 170[consolidated] revenues of the REIT 171[, holdco] and the SPV, other than gains arising from disposal of properties, shall be, at all times, from rental, leasing and letting real estate assets or any other income incidental to the leasing of such assets.
172[***]
173[***]
(9)Conditions specified in sub-regulations (4), (5), (6), (7) and (8) shall be monitored on a half-yearly basis and at the time of acquisition of an asset:
Provided that if such conditions are breached on account of market movements of the price of the underlying assets or securities or change in tenants or expiry of lease or sale of properties, the manager shall inform the same to the trustee and ensure that the conditions as specified in this regulation are satisfied within six months of such breach:
Provided further that the period may be extended by another six months subject to approval from investors in accordance with regulation 22.
(10) A REIT shall hold any completed and rent generating property, whether directly or through 174[holdco or] SPV, for a period of not less than three years from the date of purchase of such property by the REIT or 175[holdco or] SPV.
(11)For any sale of property, whether by the REIT or 176[holdco or] the SPV or for sale of shares or interest in the SPV by the 177[holdco or] REIT exceeding ten per cent. of the value of
169Substituted for “seventy five” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
170Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.
171Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
172Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. Prior to omission, the clause read as:
“(7) Not less than seventy five per cent. of value of the REIT assets proportionately on a consolidated basis shall be rent generating.”
173Omitted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017. Prior to the omission, the sub-regulation read as follows:
“(8) A REIT shall hold at least two projects, directly or through 173[holdco and/or] SPV, with not more than sixty per cent. of the value of the assets, proportionately on a consolidated basis, in one project.”
174Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
175Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
176Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
177Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
40
REIT assets in a financial year, the manager shall obtain approval from the unit holders in accordance with regulation 22.
(12)A REIT shall not invest in units of other REITs.
(13)A REIT shall not undertake lending to any person 178[other than the holding company/special purpose vehicle(s) in which the REIT has invested in, subject to disclosures specified in Schedule IV]:
Provided that investment in debt securities shall not be considered as lending.
(14) With respect to investment in leasehold properties, the manager shall consider the remaining term of the lease, the objectives of the REIT, the lease profile of the REIT’s existing real estate assets and any other factors as may be relevant, prior to making such investment.
(15)In case of any co-investment with any person(s) in any transaction,-
(a)the investment by the other person(s) shall not be at terms more favourable than those to the REIT;
(b)the investment shall not provide any rights to the person(s) which shall prevent the REIT from complying with the provisions of these regulations;
(c)the agreement with such person(s) shall include the minimum percentage of distributable cash flows that will be distributed and entitlement of the REIT to receive not less than pro rata distributions and mode for resolution of any disputes between the REIT and the other person(s).
(16)With respect to distributions made by the REIT and the 179[holdco and/or] SPV,-
(a)not less than ninety per cent. of net distributable cash flows of the SPV shall be distributed to the REIT 180[/holdco] in proportion of its holding in the SPV subject to applicable provisions in the Companies Act, 2013 or the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008;
181[(aa) with regard to distribution of net distributable cash flows by the holdco to the REIT, subject to applicable provisions in the Companies Act, 2013 or the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, the following shall be complied:
178Inserted by theSEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
179Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
180Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
181Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
41
(i)with respect to the cash flows received by the holdco from underlying SPVs, 100% of such cash flows received by the holdco shall be distributed to the REIT; and
(ii)with respect to the cash flows generated by the holdco on its own, not less than 90% of such net distributable cash flows shall be distributed by the holdco to the REIT;]
(b)not less than ninety per cent. of net distributable cash flows of the REIT shall be distributed to the unit holders;
(c)such distributions shall be declared and made not less than once every six months in every financial year and shall be made not later than fifteen days from the date of such declaration;
(d)if any property is sold by the REIT or 182[holdco or SPV or if the equity shares or interest in the holdco/SPV are sold by the REIT, then],-
(i)if the REIT proposes to reinvest sale proceeds, if any, into another property, it shall not be required to distribute any sale proceeds from such sale to the unit holders; 183[***]
(ii)if the REIT 184[***] proposes not to invest the sales proceeds made into any other property, 185[within a period of 1 year,] it shall be required to distribute not less than ninety per cent. of the sales proceeds in accordance with clauses (a) 186[, (b), (c) and (d) of sub-regulation 16];
(e)if the distributions are not made within fifteen days of declaration, then the manager shall be liable to pay interest to the unit holders at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum till the distribution is made and such interest shall not be recovered in the form of fees or any other form payable to the manager by the REIT.
(17)No schemes shall be launched under the REIT.
182Substituted for “SPV” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
183Omitted “and if the SPV proposes to reinvest sale proceeds, if any, into another property, it shall not be required to distribute any sale proceeds from such sale to the REIT;” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
184Omitted “or SPV” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
185Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
186Substituted for “and (b)” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
42
(18)The Board may specify any additional conditions for investments by the REIT as it deems
fit.
19.(1) All related party transactions shall be on an arms-length basis, in the best interest of the unit holders, consistent with the strategy and investment objectives of the REIT and shall be disclosed to the designated stock exchange and unit holders periodically in accordance with the listing agreement and these regulations.
(2)A REIT, subject to the conditions specified hereunder, may,-
(a)acquire assets from related parties;
(b)sell assets or securities to related parties;
(c)lease assets to related parties;
(d)lease assets from related parties;
(e)invest in securities issued by related parties;
(f)borrow from related parties.
(3)With respect to purchase or sale of properties 187[***] after initial offer,-
(a)two valuation reports from two different valuers, independent of each other, shall be obtained;
(b)such valuers shall undertake a full valuation of the assets proposed to be purchased or sold as specified under regulation 21;
(c)Transactions for purchase of such assets shall be at a price not greater than, and transactions for sale of such assets shall be at a price not lesser than, 188[one hundred ten percent and ninety percent of the] average of the two independent valuations 189[, respectively].
(4)In case of any related party transactions entered into prior to making the initial offer,-
187Omitted “both prior to and” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
188Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
189Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
43
(a)adequate disclosures to that effect shall be made in the initial offer document including a consolidated full valuation report of all such assets 190[***];
(b)the REIT shall enter into proper and valid agreements with such related parties at the price or interest rate or rental value mentioned in the initial offer document;
(c)If the transactions are conditional upon the REIT receiving a minimum amount of subscription, adequate disclosures shall be made in the offer document and the agreements to that effect.
(5)In case of any related party transactions entered into after the initial offer,-
(a)adequate disclosures shall be made to the unit holders and to the designated stock exchanges;
(b)in case,-
(i)the total value of all the related party transactions, in a financial year, pertaining to acquisition or sale of properties 191[, whether directly or through holdco and/or SPVs,] or investments into securities exceeds ten per cent. of the value of REIT; or
(ii)the value of the funds borrowed from related parties, in a financial year, exceeds ten per cent. of the total consolidated borrowings of the REIT
192[, holdco and/or SPVs];
approval from the unit holders shall be obtained prior to entering into any such subsequent transaction with any related party;
(c)for the purpose of obtaining approval for such transactions, the manager shall obtain approval from unit holders in accordance with regulation 22 and request for such approval shall be accompanied by a transaction document.
(6)The disclosures in the offer document and transaction document shall include the following, as may be applicable,-
190Words, figures and symbols “in accordance with clause (a) of sub-regulation (3), as may be applicable” omitted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
191Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
192Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
44
(a)identity of the related parties and their relationship with the REIT or parties to the REIT;
(b)nature and details of the transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into with such related parties including description and location of assets;
(c)the price or value of the assets or securities bought or sold or leased or proposed to be bought or sold or leased and if leased or proposed to be leased, value of the lease;
(d)ready reckoner rate of the real estate asset being bought or sold:
Provided that where such ready reckoner rate are not available, property tax assessment value or similar published rates by Government authorities shall be disclosed;
(e)summary of the valuation report(s);
(f)the current and expected rental yield;
(g)if the transactions are conditional upon the REIT receiving a stated amount of subscriptions, the minimum amount of such subscriptions to be received;
(h)amount of borrowing and rate of interest in case of borrowing from any related party;
(i)any other information that is required for the investor to take an informed decision.
(7)With respect to any properties leased to related parties to the REIT, both before and after initial offer, if,-
(a)such lease area exceeds twenty per cent. of the total area of the underlying assets;
(b)value of assets under such lease exceeds twenty per cent of the value of the total underlying assets;
(c)rental income obtained from such leased assets exceeds twenty per cent of the value of the rental income of all underlying assets,
45
a fairness opinion from an independent valuer shall be obtained by the manager and submitted to the trustee and approval of unitholders in accordance with regulation 22 shall be obtained.
(8)For any related party transaction requiring approval of the unit holders or proposed to be undertaken immediately after the initial offer, the agreement shall be entered into within six months from date of close of initial offer or from date of approval of the unit holders, as the case may be:
Provided that in case of the agreement is not entered into within such period, approval from the unit holders may be sought for extension for another six months in accordance with regulation 22 with the updated valuation report(s).
(9)Adequate disclosures of all related party transactions that have been entered into prior to the follow-on offer shall be made in the follow-on offer document.
(10)Transaction between two or more of the REITs with a common manager or sponsor shall be deemed to be related party transactions for each of the REITs and provisions of this regulation shall apply:
Provided that this sub-regulation shall also apply if the managers or sponsors of the REITs are different entities but are associates.
(11)With respect to any related party transaction, details of any fees or commissions received or to be received by 193[such] related party194[(ies)] shall be adequately disclosed to the unit holders and to the designated stock exchanges.
(12)No related party shall retain cash or other rebates from any property agent in consideration for referring transactions in REIT assets to the property agent.
(13)Where any of the related parties has an interest in a business which competes or is likely to compete, either directly or indirectly, with the activities of the REIT, the following details shall be disclosed in the offer document,-
(a)details of the such business including an explanation as to how such business shall compete with the REIT;
193Substituted “any person or entity which is an associate of the” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
194Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
46
(b)a declaration that the related party shall perform its duty in relation to the REIT independent of its related business;
(c)declaration as to whether any acquisition of such business by the REIT is intended and if so, details of the same thereof.
20. 195[(1) A REIT, whose units are listed on a recognized stock exchange, may issue debt securities in the manner specified by the Board:
Provided that such debt securities shall be listed on recognized stock exchange(s).]
196[(2)] The aggregate consolidated borrowings and deferred payments of the REIT 197[, holdco and/or the SPV(s),] net of cash and cash equivalents shall never exceed forty nine per cent. of the value of the REIT assets:
Provided that such borrowings and deferred payments shall not include any refundable security deposits to tenants.
198[(3)] If the aggregate consolidated borrowings and deferred payments of the REIT 199[, holdco and/or the SPV(s),] net of cash and cash equivalents exceed twenty five per cent. of the value of the REIT assets, for any further borrowing,-
(a)credit rating shall be obtained from a credit rating agency registered with the Board; and
(b)approval of unit holders shall be obtained in the manner as specified in regulation 22.
200[(4)] If the conditions specified in sub-regulations (1) and (2) are breached on account of market movements of the price of the underlying assets or securities, the manager shall inform
195Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
196Re-numbered by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
197Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
198Re-numbered by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
199Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
200Re-numbered by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
47
the same to the trustee and ensure that the conditions as specified in this regulation are satisfied within six months of such breach.
21.(1) The valuer shall not be an associate of the sponsor(s) or manager or trustee and shall have not less than five years of experience in valuation of real estate.
(2)Full valuation includes a detailed valuation of all assets by the valuer including physical inspection of every property by the valuer.
(3)Full valuation report shall include the mandatory minimum disclosures as specified in Schedule V to these regulations.
(4)A full valuation shall be conducted by the valuer atleast once in every financial year:
Provided that such full valuation shall be conducted at the end of the financial year ending March 31st within three months from the end of such year.
(5)A half yearly valuation of the REIT assets shall be conducted by the valuer for the half-year ending on September 30 for incorporating any key changes in the previous six months and such half yearly valuation report shall be prepared within forty five days from the date of end of such half year.
(6)Valuation reports received by the manager shall be submitted to the designated stock exchange and unit holders within fifteen days from the receipt of such valuation reports.
(7)Prior to any issue of units to the public and any other issue of units as may be specified by the Board, the valuer shall undertake full valuation of all the REIT assets and include a summary of the report in the offer document:
Provided that such valuation report shall not be more than six months old at the time of such offer:
Provided further that this shall not apply in cases where full valuation has been undertaken not more than six months prior to such issue and no material changes have occurred thereafter.
(8)For any transaction of purchase or sale of properties,201[ whether directly or through holdco and/or SPVs,]-
201Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
48
(a)if the transaction is a related party transaction, the valuation shall be in accordance with regulation 19;
(b)if the transaction is not a related party transaction,-
(i)a full valuation of the specific property shall be undertaken by the valuer;
(ii)if ,-
(1)in case of a purchase transaction, the property is proposed to be purchased at a value greater than one hundred and ten per cent. of the value of the property as assessed by the valuer;
(2)in case of a sale transaction, the property is proposed to be sold at a value less than ninety per cent. of the value of the property as assessed by the valuer,
approval of the unit holders shall be obtained in accordance with regulation 22.
(9)No valuer shall undertake valuation of the same property for more than four years consecutively:
Provided that the valuer may be reappointed after a period of not less than two years from the date it ceases to be the valuer of the REIT.
202[***]
(11)In case of any material development that may have an impact on the valuation of the REIT assets, then manager shall require the valuer to undertake full valuation of the property under consideration within not more than two months from the date of such event and disclose the same to the trustee, investors and the Designated Stock Exchanges within fifteen days of such valuation.
(12)The valuer shall not value any assets in which it has either been involved with the acquisition or disposal within the last twelve months other than such cases where valuer was engaged by the REIT for such acquisition or disposal.
202Omitted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017. Prior to its omission, the sub-regulation read as follows:
“(10) Any valuation undertaken by any valuer shall abide by international valuation standards and valuation standards as may be specified by Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) for valuation of real estate assets:
22.(1) The unit holder shall have the rights to receive income or distributions as provided for in the Offer document or trust deed.
(2)With respect to any matter requiring approval of the unit holders,-
(a)a resolution shall be considered as passed when the votes cast by unit holders, so entitled and voting, in favour of the resolution exceed a certain percentage, as specified in this regulation, of the votes cast against;
(b)the voting may also be done by postal ballot or electronic mode;
(c)a notice of not less than twenty one days either in writing or through electronic mode shall be provided to the unit holders;
(d)voting by any person who is a related party in such transaction as well as associates of such person(s) shall not be considered on the specific issue;
(e)manager shall be responsible for all the activities pertaining to conducting of meeting of the unit holders, subject to overseeing by the trustee:
Provided that in respect of issues pertaining to the manager such as change in manager including removal of the manager or change in control of the manager, Trustee shall convene and handle all activities pertaining to conduct of the meetings:
Provided further that in respect of issues pertaining to the trustee such as change in the trustee, the trustee shall not be involved in any manner in the conduct of the meeting.
(3)An annual meeting of all unit holders shall be held not less than once a year within one hundred and twenty days from the end of financial year and the time between two meetings shall not exceed fifteen months.
(4)With respect to the annual meeting of unit holders,-
50
(a)any information that is required to be disclosed to the unit holders and any issue that, in the ordinary course of business, may require approval of the unit holders may be taken up in the meeting including,-
(i)latest annual accounts and performance of the REIT;
(ii)approval of auditor and fees of such auditor, as may be required;
(iii)latest valuation reports;
(iv)appointment of valuer, as may be required;
(v)any other issue including special issues as specified under sub- regulation (6);
(b)for any issue taken up in such meetings which require approval from the unit holders, votes cast in favour of the resolution shall 203[be more than] the votes cast against the resolution.
(5)In case of,-
(a)any approval from unit holders required under regulation 18, 19 and 21;
(b)any transaction, other than any borrowing, value of which is equal to or greater than twenty five per cent. of the REIT assets;
(c)any borrowing in excess of specified limit as required under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 20;
(d)any issue of units after initial offer by the REIT, in whatever form, other than any issue of units which may be considered by the Board under sub- regulation(6);
(e)increasing period for compliance with investment conditions to one year in accordance with proviso to sub-regulation (9) of regulation 18;
(f)any issue, in the ordinary course of business, which in the opinion of the sponsor(s) or trustee or manager, is material and requires approval of the unit holders, if any;
203Substituted “not be less than one and a half times” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
51
(g)any issue for which the Board or the designated stock exchange requires approval under this sub-regulation,
approval from unitholders shall be required where the votes cast in favour of the resolution shall be 204[more than] the votes cast against the resolution.
(6)In case of ,-
(a)any change in manager including removal of the manager or change in control of the manager;
(b)any material change in investment strategy or any change in the management fees of the REIT;
(c)the sponsor(s) or manager proposing to seek delisting of units of the REIT;
(d)the value of the units held by a person along with its associates other than the sponsor(s) and its associates exceeding fifty per cent. of the value of outstanding REIT units, prior to acquiring any further units;
(e)any issue, not in the ordinary course of business, which in the opinion of the sponsor(s) or manager or trustee requires approval of the unit holders;
(f)any issue for which the Board or the designated stock exchanges requires approval under this sub-regulation;
(g)any issue taken up on request of the unit holders including:
(i)removal of the manager and appointment of another manager to the REIT;
(ii)removal of the auditor and appointment of another auditor to the REIT;
(iii)removal of the valuer and appointment of another valuer to the REIT;
(iv)delisting of the REIT if the unit holders have sufficient reason to believe that such delisting would act in the interest of the unit holders;
204Substituted “not less than one and half times” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
52
(v)any issue which the unit holders have sufficient reason to believe that acts detrimental to the interest of the unit holders;
(vi)change in the trustee if the unit holders have sufficient reason to believe that acts of such trustee is detrimental to the interest of the unit holders,
approval from unit holders shall be required where the votes cast in favour of the resolution shall be not less than 205[one and half] times the votes cast against the resolution:
Provided that in case of clause (d), if approval is not obtained, the person shall provide an exit option to the unitholders to the extent and in the manner as may be specified by the Board.
(7)With respect to the right(s) of the unit holders under clause (g) of sub-regulation (6),-
(a)not less than twenty five per cent. of the unit holders by value, other than any party related to the transactions and its associates, shall apply, in writing, to the trustee for the purpose;
(b)on receipt of such application, the Trustee shall require the manager to place the issue for voting in the manner as specified in these regulations;
(c)with respect to sub-clause (vi) of clause (g) of sub-regulation (6) , not less than sixty per cent. of the unit holders by value shall apply, in writing, to the manager for the purpose.
(8)In case of any change in sponsor or re-designated sponsor or change in control of sponsor or re-designated sponsor,-
(a)prior to such changes, approval shall be obtained from the unit holders wherein votes cast in favour of the resolution shall not be less than three times the votes cast against the resolution;
(b)if such change does not receive the required approval,-
(i)in case of change of sponsor or re-designated sponsor, the proposed re-designated sponsor who proposes to buy the units
205Substituted “three”by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
53
shall provide the dissenting unit holders an option to exit by buying their units;
(ii)in case of change in control of the sponsor or re-designated sponsor, the sponsor or re-designated sponsor shall provide the dissenting unit holders an option to exit by buying their units;
23.(1) The manager shall ensure that the disclosures in the offer document are in accordance with the Schedule III to these regulations and any circulars or guidelines issued by the Board in this regard.
(2)The manager shall submit an annual report to all unit holders of the REIT with respect to activities of the REIT, within three months from the end of the financial year.
(3)The manager shall submit a half-yearly report to all unit holders of the REIT with respect to activities of the REIT within forty five days from the end of the half year ending on September 30th.
(4)Such annual and half yearly reports shall contain disclosures as specified under Schedule IV to these regulations.
(5)The manager shall disclose to the designated stock exchanges any information having bearing on the operation or performance of the REIT as well as price sensitive information which includes but is not restricted to the following,-
206Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
207Substituted for “twenty five per cent. of the total outstanding units” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
208Substituted for “trustee” the trustee may provide a period of one year to the manager to rectify the same, failing which
54
(a)acquisition or disposal of any properties, value of which exceeds five per cent. of value of the REIT assets;
(b)additional borrowing, at level of 209[holdco or] SPV or the REIT, resulting in such borrowing exceeding five per cent. of the value of the REIT assets during the year;
(c)additional issue of units by the REIT;
(d)details of any credit rating obtained by the REIT and any change in such rating;
(e)any issue which requires approval of the unit holders;
(f)any legal proceedings which may have significant bearing on the functioning of the REIT;
(g)notices and results of meetings of unit holders;
(h)any instance of non-compliance with these regulations including any breach of limits specified under these regulations;
(i)any material issue that in the opinion of the manager or trustee needs to be disclosed to the unit holders.
(6)The manager shall submit such information to the designated stock exchanges and unit holders on a periodical basis as may be required under the listing agreement.
24.The Board may at any time call upon the REIT or parties to the REIT to file such reports, as the Board may desire, with respect to the activities relating to the REIT.
25.(1) The Board may at any time call for any information from the REIT or 210[holdco or SPV(s) or] parties to the REIT or any unit holder or any other person with respect to any matter relating to activity of the REIT.
209Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
210Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
55
(2)Where any information is called for under sub-regulation (1), it shall be furnished within the time specified by the Board.
26.(1) The manager shall maintain records pertaining to the activity of the REIT including,
211[for a period of not less than seven years,]-
(a)decisions of the manager with respect to investments or divestments and documents supporting the same;
(b)details of investments made by the REIT and documents supporting the same;
(c)agreements entered into by the REIT or on behalf of the REIT;
(d)documents relating to appointment of persons as specified in sub-regulation (5) of regulation 10;
(e)insurance policies for real estate assets;
(f)investment management agreement;
(g)documents pertaining to issue and listing of units including initial offer document or follow-on offer document(s) or other offer document(s), in-principle approval by designated stock exchanges, listing agreement with the designated stock exchanges, details of subscriptions, allotment of units, etc.;
(h)distributions declared and made to the unit holders;
(i)disclosures and periodical reporting made to the trustee, Board, unit holders and designated stock exchanges including annual reports, half yearly reports, etc.;
(j)valuation reports including methodology of valuation;
(k)books of accounts and financial statements;
(l)audit reports;
(m)reports relating to activities of the REIT placed before the Board of Directors of the manager;
211Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
56
(n)unit holders' grievances and actions taken thereon including copies of correspondences made with the unit holders and the Board, if any;
(o)any other material documents.
(2)The trustee shall maintain records pertaining to,-
(a)certificate of registration granted by the Board;
(b)registered trust deed;
(c)documents pertaining to application made to the Board for registration as a REIT;
(d)titles of the real estate assets:
Provided that where the original title documents are deposited with the lender in respect of any loan / debt, the trustee shall maintain copies of such title documents;
(e)notices and agenda send to unit holders for meetings held;
(f)minutes of meetings and resolutions passed therein;
(g)periodical reports and disclosures received by the trustee from the manager;
(h)disclosures, periodically or otherwise, made to the Board, unit holders and to the designated stock exchanges;
(i)any other material documents.
27.The Board may suo motu or upon receipt of information or complaint appoint one or more persons as inspecting officers to undertake inspection of the books of accounts, records and
57
documents relating to activity of the REIT 212[ or holdco or SPVs or parties to the REIT] for any of the following reasons, namely,-
(a)to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being maintained by the REIT or parties to the REIT in the manner specified in these regulations;
(b)to inspect into complaints received from unit holders, clients or any other person, on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the REIT;
(c)to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act and these regulations are being complied with by the REIT and parties to the REIT;
(d)to inspect suo motu into the affairs of the REIT, in the interest of the securities market or in the interest of investors.
28.(1) Before ordering an inspection under regulation 27, the Board shall give not less than ten days notice to the trustee of the REIT.
(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may, by an order in writing, direct that the inspection of the affairs of the REIT be taken up without such notice.
(3)During the course of an inspection, the REIT against whom the inspection is being carried out and parties to the REIT shall be bound to discharge their obligations as provided in regulation 29.
29.(1) It shall be the duty of every REIT in respect of whom an inspection has been ordered under the regulation 27, parties to the REIT and any other associate person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of such REIT, including representative of REIT, if any, to produce to the inspecting officer such books, accounts and other documents
212Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
58
in his custody or control and furnish him with such statements and information as the inspecting officer may require for the purposes of inspection.
(2)It shall be the duty of every REIT, parties to the REIT and any other associate person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of the REIT to give to the Inspecting Officer all such assistance and to extend all such co-operation as may be required in connection with the inspection and to furnish such information as may be sought by the inspecting officer in connection with the inspection.
(3)The inspecting officer shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to examine on oath and record the statement of any employees and directors of the REIT or parties to the REIT or
213[ holdco or SPV(s) or] any person responsible for or connected with the activities of REIT or any other associated person having relevant information pertaining to such REIT.
(4)The inspecting officer shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to obtain authenticated copies of documents, books, accounts of REIT, from any person having control or custody of such documents, books or accounts.
30.The inspecting officer shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection submit an inspection report to the Board:
Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit an interim report.
31.The Board may after consideration of the inspection report and after giving reasonable opportunity of hearing to the REITs or parties to the REIT or its representatives or any such person, issue such directions as it deems fit in the interest of securities market or the investors in the nature of,-
(a)requiring the REIT to delist its units from the designated stock exchanges and surrender its certificate of registration;
(b)requiring the REIT to sell its assets;
213Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
59
(c)requiring the REIT or parties to the REIT to take such action as may be in the interest of the investors;
32A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis.
Explanation. — For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means a live testing environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering
214Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulation, w.e.f. 17-04-2020.
60
33.In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the manner as may be appropriate.
215[Power to relax strict enforcement of Regulations
(33A) The Board may, in the interest of investors or for the development of the securities market, relax the strict enforcement of any requirement of these regulations, if the Board is satisfied that
(a)requirement is procedural or technical in nature; or
(b)the requirement may cause undue hardship to investors; or
(c)the disclosure requirement is not relevant for a particular industry or class of listed entities; or
(d)the non-compliance was caused due to factors beyond the control of the issuer; or
(e)such relaxation will be in the interest of securities market216[; or]
217[(f)] any provision of Act(s), Rule(s), regulation(s) under which the listed entity is established or is governed by, is required to be given precedence to]
34.The regulations specified in the Schedule VII to these regulations shall be amended in the manner and to the extent stated therein.
215Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016
216Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017
217Clause number inserted ibid
1.(1) These regulations may be called the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015.
(2)These regulations shall come into force on the one hundred and twentieth day from the date of its publication in the Official Gazette.
2.(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words, expressions and derivations therefrom shall have the meanings assigned to them as under:–
(a)“Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);
(b)“Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India;
(c)“compliance officer” means any senior officer, designated so and reporting to the board of directors or head of the organization in case board is not there, who is financially literate and is capable of appreciating requirements for legal and regulatory compliance under these regulations and who shall be responsible for compliance of policies, procedures, maintenance of records, monitoring adherence to the rules for the preservation of unpublished price sensitive information, monitoring of trades and the implementation of the codes specified in these regulations under the overall supervision of the board of directors of the listed company or the head of an organization, as the case may be.
1[Explanation – For the purpose of this regulation, “financially literate” shall mean a person who has the ability to read and understand basic financial statements i.e. balance sheet, profit and loss account, and statement of cash flows];
(d)"connected person" means,-
(i)any person who is or has during the six months prior to the concerned act been associated with a company, directly or indirectly, in any capacity including by
reason of frequent communication with its officers or by being in any contractual, fiduciary or employment relationship or by being a director, officer or an employee of the company or holds any position including a professional or
1Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
business relationship between himself and the company whether temporary or permanent, that allows such person, directly or indirectly, access to unpublished price sensitive information or is reasonably expected to allow such access.
(ii)Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, the persons falling within the following categories shall be deemed to be connected persons unless the contrary is established, -
(a). an immediate relative of connected persons specified in clause (i); or
(b). a holding company or associate company or subsidiary company; or
(c). an intermediary as specified in section 12 of the Act or an employee or director thereof; or
(d). an investment company, trustee company, asset management company or an employee or director thereof; or
(e). an official of a stock exchange or of clearing house or corporation; or
(f). a member of board of trustees of a mutual fund or a member of the board of directors of the asset management company of a mutual fund or is an employee thereof; or
(g). a member of the board of directors or an employee, of a public financial institution as defined in section 2 (72) of the Companies Act, 2013; or
(h). an official or an employee of a self-regulatory organization recognised or authorized by the Board; or
(i). a banker of the company; or
(j). a concern, firm, trust, Hindu undivided family, company or association of persons wherein a director of a company or his immediate relative or banker of the company, has more than ten per cent. of the holding or interest;
NOTE: It is intended that a connected person is one who has a connection with the company that is expected to put him in possession of unpublished price sensitive information. Immediate relatives and other categories of persons specified above are also presumed to be connected persons but such a presumption is a deeming legal fiction and
is rebuttable. This definition is also intended to bring into its ambit persons who may not seemingly occupy any position in a company but are in regular touch with the company and its officers and are involved in the know of the company’s operations. It is intended to bring within its ambit those who would have access to or could access unpublished price sensitive information about any company or class of companies by virtue of any connection that would put them in possession of unpublished price sensitive information.
(e)"generally available information" means information that is accessible to the public on a non-discriminatory basis;
NOTE: It is intended to define what constitutes generally available information so that it is easier to crystallize and appreciate what unpublished price sensitive information is. Information published on the website of a stock exchange, would ordinarily be considered generally available.
(f)“immediate relative” means a spouse of a person, and includes parent, sibling, and
child of such person or of the spouse, any of whom is either dependent financially on such person, or consults such person in taking decisions relating to trading in securities;
NOTE: It is intended that the immediate relatives of a “connected person” too become connected persons for purposes of these regulations. Indeed, this is a rebuttable presumption.
(g)"insider" means any person who is:
i)a connected person; or
ii)in possession of or having access to unpublished price sensitive information;
NOTE: Since “generally available information” is defined, it is intended that anyone in possession of or having access to unpublished price sensitive information should be considered an “insider” regardless of how one came in possession of or had access to such information. Various circumstances are provided for such a person to demonstrate that he has not indulged in insider trading. Therefore, this definition is intended to bring within its reach any person who is in receipt of or has access to unpublished price sensitive information. The onus of showing that a certain person was in possession of or had access to unpublished price sensitive information at the time of trading would, therefore, be on the person leveling the charge after which the person who has traded when in possession of or having access to unpublished price sensitive information may demonstrate that he was not in such possession or that he has not traded or or he could not access or that his trading when in possession of such information was squarely covered by the exonerating circumstances.
(h)"promoter" shall have the meaning assigned to it under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
2[2018] or any modification thereof;
3[(ha) "promoter group" shall have the meaning assigned to it under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 or any modification thereof;]
4[(5[hb]) “proposed to be listed” shall include securities of an unlisted company:
(i)if such unlisted company has filed offer documents or other documents, as the case may be, with the Board, stock exchange(s) or registrar of companies in connection with the listing; or
2Substituted for the number “2009” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
3Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. January 21, 2019)
4Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
5Re-numbered by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. January 21, 2019)
(ii)if such unlisted company is getting listed pursuant to any merger or amalgamation and has filed a copy of such scheme of merger or amalgamation under the Companies Act, 2013;]
(i)"securities" shall have the meaning assigned to it under the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) or any modification thereof except units of a mutual fund;
(j)"specified" means specified by the Board in writing;
(k)“takeover regulations” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 and any amendments thereto;
(l)"trading" means and includes subscribing, buying, selling, dealing, or agreeing to subscribe, buy, sell, deal in any securities, and "trade" shall be construed accordingly ;
NOTE: Under the parliamentary mandate, since the Section 12A (e) and Section 15G of the Act employs the term 'dealing in securities', it is intended to widely define the term “trading” to include dealing. Such a construction is intended to curb the activities based on unpublished price sensitive information which are strictly not buying, selling or subscribing, such as pledging etc when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information.
(m)“trading day” means a day on which the recognized stock exchanges are open for
trading;
(n)"unpublished price sensitive information" means any information, relating to a company or its securities, directly or indirectly, that is not generally available which upon becoming generally available, is likely to materially affect the price of the securities and shall, ordinarily including but not restricted to, information relating to the following: –
(i)financial results;
(ii)dividends;
(iii)change in capital structure;
(iv)mergers, de-mergers, acquisitions, delistings, disposals and expansion of business and such other transactions;
(v)changes in key managerial personnel.
6[***].
3.(1) No insider shall communicate, provide, or allow access to any unpublished price sensitive information, relating to a company or securities listed or proposed to be listed, to any person including other insiders except where such communication is in furtherance of legitimate purposes, performance of duties or discharge of legal obligations.
NOTE: This provision is intended to cast an obligation on all insiders who are essentially persons in possession of unpublished price sensitive information to handle such information with care and to deal with the information with them when transacting their business strictly on a need-to-know basis. It is also intended to lead to organisations developing practices based on need-to-know principles for treatment of information in their possession.
(2)No person shall procure from or cause the communication by any insider of unpublished price sensitive information, relating to a company or securities listed or proposed to be listed, except in furtherance of legitimate purposes, performance of duties or discharge of legal obligations.
NOTE: This provision is intended to impose a prohibition on unlawfully procuring possession of unpublished price sensitive information. Inducement and procurement of unpublished price sensitive information not in furtherance of one’s legitimate duties and discharge of obligations would be illegal under this provision.
7[(2A) The board of directors of a listed company shall make a policy for determination of “legitimate purposes” as a part of “Codes of Fair Disclosure and Conduct” formulated under regulation 8.
Explanation – For the purpose of illustration, the term “legitimate purpose” shall include sharing of unpublished price sensitive information in the ordinary course of business by an insider with
7Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019).
partners, collaborators, lenders, customers, suppliers, merchant bankers, legal advisors, auditors, insolvency professionals or other advisors or consultants, provided that such sharing has not been carried out to evade or circumvent the prohibitions of these regulations.]
8[(2B) Any person in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information pursuant to a “legitimate purpose” shall be considered an “insider” for purposes of these regulations and due notice shall be given to such persons to maintain confidentiality of such unpublished price sensitive information in compliance with these regulations.]
(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in this regulation, an unpublished price sensitive information may be communicated, provided, allowed access to or procured, in connection with a transaction that would:–
(i)entail an obligation to make an open offer under the takeover regulations where the board of directors of the 9[listed] company is of informed opinion that 10[sharing of such information] is in the best interests of the company;
NOTE: It is intended to acknowledge the necessity of communicating, providing, allowing access to or procuring UPSI for substantial transactions such as takeovers, mergers and acquisitions involving trading in securities and change of control to assess a potential investment. In an open offer under the takeover regulations, not only would the same price be made available to all shareholders of the company but also all information necessary to enable an informed divestment or retention decision by the public shareholders is required to be made available to all shareholders in the letter of offer under those regulations.
8Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
9Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
10Substituted for the words “the proposed transaction” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019).
(ii)not attract the obligation to make an open offer under the takeover regulations but where the board of directors of the 11[listed] company is of informed opinion 12[that sharing of such information] is in the best interests of the company and the information that constitute unpublished price sensitive information is disseminated to be made generally available at least two trading days prior to the proposed transaction being effected in such form as the board of directors may determine 13[to be adequate and fair to cover all relevant and material facts].
NOTE: It is intended to permit communicating, providing, allowing access to or procuring UPSI also in transactions that do not entail an open offer obligation under the takeover regulations 14[when authorised by the board of directors if sharing of such information] is in the best interests of the company. The board of directors, however, would cause public disclosures of such unpublished price sensitive information well before the proposed transaction to rule out any information asymmetry in the market.
(4)For purposes of sub-regulation (3), the board of directors shall require the parties to execute agreements to contract confidentiality and non-disclosure obligations on the part of such parties and such parties shall keep information so received confidential, except for the purpose of sub-regulation (3), and shall not otherwise trade in securities of the company when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information.
15[(5) The board of directors shall ensure that a structured digital database is maintained containing the names of such persons or entities as the case may be with whom information is shared under this regulation along with the Permanent Account Number or any other identifier authorized by law where Permanent Account Number is not available. Such databases shall be
11Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
12Substituted for the words “that the proposed transaction” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
13Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
14Substituted for the words “if it” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
15Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
4.(1) No insider shall trade in securities that are listed or proposed to be listed on a stock exchange when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information:
16[Explanation –When a person who has traded in securities has been in possession of unpublished price sensitive information, his trades would be presumed to have been motivated by the knowledge and awareness of such information in his possession.]
Provided that the insider may prove his innocence by demonstrating the circumstances including the following: –
(i)the transaction is an off-market inter-se transfer between 17[insiders] who were in possession of the same unpublished price sensitive information without being in breach of regulation 3 and both parties had made a conscious and informed trade decision.
18[Provided that such unpublished price sensitive information was not obtained under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 3 of these regulations.
Provided further that such off-market trades shall be reported by the insiders to the company within two working days. Every company shall notify the particulars of such trades to the stock exchange on which the securities are listed within two trading days from receipt of the disclosure or from becoming aware of such information.];
16Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
17Substituted for the word “promoters” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
18Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
19[(ii) the transaction was carried out through the block deal window mechanism between persons who were in possession of the unpublished price sensitive information without being in breach of regulation 3 and both parties had made a conscious and informed trade decision;
Provided that such unpublished price sensitive information was not obtained by either person under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 3 of these regulations.
(iii)the transaction in question was carried out pursuant to a statutory or regulatory obligation to carry out a bona fide transaction.
(iv)the transaction in question was undertaken pursuant to the exercise of stock options in respect of which the exercise price was pre-determined in compliance with applicable regulations.]
(v)in the case of non-individual insiders: –
(a)the individuals who were in possession of such unpublished price sensitive information were different from the individuals taking trading decisions and such decision-making individuals were not in possession of such unpublished price sensitive information when they took the decision to trade; and
(b)appropriate and adequate arrangements were in place to ensure that these regulations are not violated and no unpublished price sensitive information was communicated by the individuals possessing the information to the individuals taking trading decisions and there is no evidence of such arrangements having been breached;
(vi)the trades were pursuant to a trading plan set up in accordance with regulation 5.
19Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
NOTE: When a person who has traded in securities has been in possession of unpublished price sensitive information, his trades would be presumed to have been motivated by the knowledge and awareness of such information in his possession. The reasons for which he trades or the purposes to which he applies the proceeds of the transactions are not intended to be relevant for determining whether a person has violated the regulation. He traded when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information is what would need to be demonstrated at the outset to bring a charge. Once this is established, it would be open to the insider to prove his innocence by demonstrating the circumstances mentioned in the proviso, failing which he would have violated the prohibition.
5.(1) An insider shall be entitled to formulate a trading plan and present it to the compliance officer for approval and public disclosure pursuant to which trades may be carried out on his behalf in accordance with such plan.
NOTE: This provision intends to give an option to persons who may be perpetually in possession of unpublished price sensitive information and enabling them to trade in securities in a compliant manner. This provision would enable the formulation of a trading plan by an insider to enable him to plan for trades to be executed in future. By doing so, the possession of unpublished price sensitive information when a trade under a trading plan is actually executed would not prohibit the execution of such trades that he had pre-decided even before the unpublished price sensitive information came into being.
(2)Such trading plan shall:–
(i)not entail commencement of trading on behalf of the insider earlier than six months from the public disclosure of the plan;
NOTE: It is intended that to get the benefit of a trading plan, a cool-off period of six months is necessary. Such a period is considered reasonably long for unpublished price sensitive information that is in possession of the insider when formulating the trading plan, to become generally available. It is also considered to be a reasonable period for a time lag in which new unpublished price sensitive information may come into being without adversely affecting the trading plan formulated earlier. In any case, it should be remembered that this is only a statutory cool-off period and would not grant immunity from action if the insider were to be in possession of the same unpublished price sensitive information both at the time of formulation of the plan and implementation of the same.
(ii)not entail trading for the period between the twentieth trading day prior to the last day of any financial period for which results are required to be announced by the issuer of the securities and the second trading day after the disclosure of such financial results;
NOTE: Since the trading plan is envisaged to be an exception to the general rule prohibiting trading by insiders when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information, it is important that the trading plan does not entail trading for a reasonable period around the declaration of financial results as that would generate unpublished price sensitive information.
(iii)entail trading for a period of not less than twelve months;
NOTE: It is intended that it would be undesirable to have frequent announcements of trading plans for short periods of time rendering meaningless the defence of a
reasonable time gap between the decision to trade and the actual trade. Hence it is felt that a reasonable time would be twelve months.
(iv)not entail overlap of any period for which another trading plan is already in existence;
NOTE: It is intended that it would be undesirable to have multiple trading plans operating during the same time period. Since it would be possible for an insider to time the publication of the unpublished price sensitive information to make it generally available instead of timing the trades, it is important not to have the ability to initiate more than one plan covering the same time period.
(v)set out either the value of trades to be effected or the number of securities to be traded along with the nature of the trade and the intervals at, or dates on which such trades shall be effected; and
NOTE: It is intended that while regulations should not be too prescriptive and rigid about what a trading plan should entail, they should stipulate certain basic parameters that a trading plan should conform to and within which, the plan may be formulated with full flexibility. The nature of the trades entailed in the trading plan i.e. acquisition or disposal should be set out. The trading plan may set out the value of securities or the number of securities to be invested or divested. Specific dates or specific time intervals may be set out in the plan.
(vi)not entail trading in securities for market abuse.
NOTE: Trading on the basis of such a trading plan would not grant absolute immunity from bringing proceedings for market abuse. For instance, in the event of manipulative timing of the release of unpublished price sensitive information to ensure that trading under a trading plan becomes lucrative in circumvention of regulation 4 being detected, it would be open to initiate proceedings for alleged breach of SEBI (Prohibition of
Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to the Securities Market) Regulations, 2003.
(3)The compliance officer shall review the trading plan to assess whether the plan would have any potential for violation of these regulations and shall be entitled to seek such express undertakings as may be necessary to enable such assessment and to approve and monitor the implementation of the plan.
20[Provided that pre-clearance of trades shall not be required for a trade executed as per an approved trading plan.
Provided further that trading window norms and restrictions on contra trade shall not be applicable for trades carried out in accordance with an approved trading plan.]
NOTE: It is intended that the compliance officer would have to review and approve the plan. For doing so, he may need the insider to declare that he is not in possession of unpublished price sensitive information or that he would ensure that any unpublished price sensitive information in his possession becomes generally available before he commences executing his trades. Once satisfied, he may approve the trading plan, which would then have to be implemented in accordance with these regulations.
(4)The trading plan once approved shall be irrevocable and the insider shall mandatorily have to implement the plan, without being entitled to either deviate from it or to execute any trade in the securities outside the scope of the trading plan.
Provided that the implementation of the trading plan shall not be commenced if any unpublished price sensitive information in possession of the insider at the time of formulation of the plan has not become generally available at the time of the commencement of implementation and in such event the compliance officer shall confirm that the commencement ought to be deferred until
20Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
such unpublished price sensitive information becomes generally available information so as to avoid a violation of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4.
NOTE: It is intended that since the trading plan is an exception to the general rule that an insider should not trade when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information, changing the plan or trading outside the same would negate the intent behind the exception. Other investors in the market, too, would factor the impact of the trading plan on their own trading decisions and in price discovery. Therefore, it is not fair or desirable to permit the insider to deviate from the trading plan based on which others in the market have assessed their views on the securities.
The proviso is intended to address the prospect that despite the six-month gap between the formulation of the trading plan and its commencement, the unpublished price sensitive information in possession of the insider is still not generally available. In such a situation, commencement of the plan would conflict with the over-riding principle that trades should not be executed when in possession of such information. If the very same unpublished price sensitive information is still in the insider’s possession, the commencement of execution of the trading plan ought to be deferred.
6.(1) Every public disclosure under this Chapter shall be made in such form as may be specified.
(2)The disclosures to be made by any person under this Chapter shall include those relating
to trading by such person’s immediate relatives, and by any other person for whom such person takes trading decisions.
NOTE: It is intended that disclosure of trades would need to be of not only those executed by the person concerned but also by the immediate relatives and of other persons for whom the person concerned takes trading decisions. These regulations are primarily aimed at preventing abuse by trading when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information and therefore, what matters is whether the person who takes trading decisions is in possession of such information rather than whether the person who has title to the trades is in such possession.
(3)The disclosures of trading in securities shall also include trading in derivatives of securities and the traded value of the derivatives shall be taken into account for purposes of this Chapter:
Provided that trading in derivatives of securities is permitted by any law for the time being in force.
(4)The disclosures made under this Chapter shall be maintained by the company, for a minimum period of five years, in such form as may be specified.
7.(1) Initial Disclosures.
(a). Every promoter 21[, member of the promoter group] , key managerial personnel and director of every company whose securities are listed on any recognised stock exchange shall disclose his holding of securities of the company as on the date of these regulations taking effect, to the company within thirty days of these regulations taking effect;
(b). Every person on appointment as a key managerial personnel or a director of the company or upon becoming a 22[promoter or member of the promoter group] shall disclose his holding of securities of the company as on the date of appointment or becoming a promoter, to the company within seven days of such appointment or becoming a promoter.
(2)Continual Disclosures.
(a). Every promoter 23[, member of the promoter group], 24[designated person] and director of every company shall disclose to the company the number of such securities acquired or disposed of within two trading days of such transaction if the value of the securities traded, whether in one transaction or a series of transactions over any calendar quarter, aggregates to a traded value in excess of ten lakh rupees or such other value as may be specified;
(b). Every company shall notify the particulars of such trading to the stock exchange on which the securities are listed within two trading days of receipt of the disclosure or from becoming aware of such information.
21Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. January 21, 2019)
22Substituted for the word "promoter" by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. January 21, 2019)
23Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. January 21, 2019)
24Substituted for the word “employee” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
Explanation. — It is clarified for the avoidance of doubts that the disclosure of the incremental transactions after any disclosure under this sub-regulation, shall be made when the transactions effected after the prior disclosure cross the threshold specified in clause (a) of sub-regulation (2).
Disclosures by other connected persons.
7A. (1) In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:-
(a)‘Investor Protection and Education Fund’ means the Investor Protection and Education Fund created by the Board under section 11 of the Act;
(b)‘Informant’ means an individual(s), who voluntarily submits to the Board a Voluntary Information Disclosure Form relating to an alleged violation of insider trading laws that has occurred, is occurring or has a reasonable belief that it is about to occur, in a manner
25 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. December 26, 2019)
provided under these regulations, regardless of whether such individual(s) satisfies the requirements, procedures and conditions to qualify for a reward;
(c)‘Informant Incentive Committee’ means the High Powered Advisory Committee constituted by the Board in the manner as may be specified under regulation 11 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018.
(d)‘insider trading laws’ means the following provisions of securities laws,-
i.Section 15G of the Act;
ii.regulation 3 of these regulations;
iii.regulation 4 of these regulations;
iv.regulation 5 of these regulations; and
v.regulation 9 or regulation 9A of these regulations, in so far as they pertain to trading or communication of unpublished price sensitive information.
(e)‘irrelevant, vexatious and frivolous information’ includes, reporting of information which in the opinion of the Board, -
(i)Does not constitute a violation of insider trading laws; or
(ii)Is rendered solely for the purposes of malicious prosecution; or
(iii)Is rendered intentionally in an effort to waste the time and resource of the Board.
(f)‘Legal Representative’ means a duly authorised individual who is admitted to the practice of law in India;
(g)‘Monetary Sanctions’ shall mean any non-monetary settlement terms or any direction of the Board, in the nature of disgorgement under securities laws aggregating to at least Rupees one crore arising from the same operative facts contained in the original information.
(h)‘Original Information’ means any relevant information submitted in accordance with these regulations pertaining to any violation of insider trading laws that is:-
(i)derived from the independent knowledge and analysis of the Informant;
(ii)not known to the Board from any other source, except where the Informant is the original source of the information;
(iii)is sufficiently specific, credible and timely to - (1) commence an examination or inquiry or audit, (2) assist in an ongoing examination or investigation or inquiry or audit, (3) open or re-open an investigation or inquiry, or (4) inquire into a different conduct as part of an ongoing examination or investigation or inquiry or audit directed by the Board;
(iv)not exclusively derived from an allegation made in a judicial or administrative hearing, in a Governmental report, hearing, audit, or investigation, or from the news media, except where the Informant is the original source of the information; and
(v)not irrelevant or frivolous or vexatious.
Explanation. –Information which does not in the opinion of the Board add to the information already possessed by the Board is not original information.
(i)‘own analysis’ means the examination and evaluation of the relevant information by the Informant that may be publicly available, but which reveals analysis that is not known to SEBI:
Provided that such analysis is not derived from professional or confidential communication protected under the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872);
(j)‘own knowledge’ means relevant information in the possession of the Informant not derived from publicly available sources:
Provided that such knowledge is not derived from professional or confidential communications protected under the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872);
7B. (1) An Informant shall submit Original Information by furnishing the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form to the Office of Informant Protection of the Board in the format and manner set out in Schedule D. The Voluntary Information Disclosure Form may be submitted through informant’s legal representative:
Provided that where the Informant does not submit the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form through a legal representative, the Board may require such Informant to appear in person to ascertain his/her identity and the veracity of the information so provided.
Explanation. – Where any information pertaining to any violation of the Securities Laws is received in a manner not in accordance with the manner provided under these regulations, the Board may require such information to be filed with it in accordance with these regulations or reject the same.
(2)The legal representative shall,-
i.Verify the identity and contact details of the Informant;
ii.Unless otherwise required by the Board, maintain confidentiality of the identity and existence of the Informant, including the original Voluntary Information Disclosure Form;
iii.Undertake and certify that he/she,-
(a)Has reviewed the completed and signed Voluntary Information Disclosure Form for completeness and accuracy and that the information contained therein is true, correct and complete to the best of his/her knowledge;
(b)Has obtained a irrevocable consent from the Informant to provide to the Board with original Voluntary Information Disclosure Form whenever required by the Board; and
(c)Agrees to be legally obligated to provide the original Voluntary Information Disclosure Form within seven (7) calendar days of receiving such requests from the Board.
iv.Submits to the Board, the copy of the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form in the manner provided in Schedule D of these regulations along with a signed certificate as required under clause (iii) of this sub-regulation (2).
7C. (1) The Board may designate a division to function as the independent Office of Informant Protection.
(2)The Office of Informant Protection shall perform such functions as may be specified by the Board, including,-
i.Receiving and registering the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form;
ii.Making all necessary communications with the Informant;
iii.Maintaining a hotline for the benefit of potential Informant;
iv.Maintaining confidentiality of the legal representative of the Informant and act as an interface between the Informant and the officers of the Board;
v.Interacting with the Informant Incentive Committee;
vi.Issuing press releases and rewards relating to Informant; and
vii.Submitting an annual report to the Board relating to the functioning of the Office of Informant Protection.
(3)On receipt of the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form, the Office of Informant Protection shall communicate the substance of the information along with the evidence submitted by the informant to the relevant department or division of the Board for examination and initiation of necessary action, if any.
7D. (1) Upon collection or substantial recovery of the monetary sanctions amounting to at least twice the Reward, the Board may at its sole discretion, declare an Informant eligible for Reward and intimate the Informant or his or her legal representative to file an application in the format provided in Schedule-E for claiming such Reward:
Provided that the amount of Reward shall be ten percent of the monetary sanctions collected or recovered and shall not exceed Rupees One crore or such higher amount as the Board may specify from time to time:
Provided further that the Board may if deemed fit, out of the total Reward payable, grant an interim reward not exceeding Rupees Ten lacs or such higher amount as the Board may specify from time to time, on the issue of final order by the Board against the person directed to disgorge.
(2)In case of more than one Informant jointly providing the Original Information, the Reward, as specified in the intimation under sub-regulation (1), shall be divided equally amongst the total number of Informants.
(3)The Reward under these regulations shall be paid from the Investor Protection and Education Fund.
7E. (1) The amount of the Reward, if payable, shall be determined by the Board.
(2)While determining the amount of Reward under sub-regulation (1), the Board may specify the factors that may be taken into consideration by the Informant Incentive Committee.
(3)An Informant may be eligible for a Reward whether or not he reported the matter to his organization as per its internal legal and compliance procedures and irrespective of such
organization’s compliance officer subsequently providing the same Information to the Board.
7F. (1) Informants who are considered tentatively eligible for a Reward, shall submit the Informant Reward Claim Form set out in Schedule E to the Board within the period specified in the intimation sent by the Board.
(2)Prior to the payment of a Reward, an Informant shall directly or through his or her legal representative, disclose his or her identity and provide such other information as the Board may require.
7G. No Reward shall be made to an Informant:-
(1)who does not submit original information;
(2)who has acquired the Original Information, through or as a member, officer, or an employee
of:-
(i)any regulatory agency constituted by or under any law in India or outside India, including the Board;
(ii)any self-regulatory organization;
(iii)the surveillance or investigation wings of any recognised stock exchange or clearing corporation; or
(iv)any law enforcement organization including the police or any central or state revenue authorities.
(3)against whom the Board may initiate or has initiated criminal proceedings under securities laws;
(4)who wilfully refused to cooperate with the Board during its course of investigation, inquiry, audit, examination or other proceedings under securities laws;
(5)who:
(i)knowingly makes any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or
(ii)uses any false writing or document knowing that the writing or document contains any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry; or
(iii)fails to furnish the complete information available with him or accessible by him in relation to the alleged violation.
(6)who is obligated, under any law or otherwise, to report such Original Information to the Board, including a compliance officer under securities laws.
7H. (1) Any information including Original Information may, at the discretion of the Board, be made available:
(a)when it is required to be disclosed in connection with any legal proceedings in furtherance of the Board’s legal position;
(b)as permitted by these regulations; or
(c)as may be otherwise required or permitted by law.
(2)Original Information may, at the discretion of the Board, be made available to -
(i)any regulatory agency constituted by or under any law in India or outside India;
(ii)any self-regulatory organization;
(iii)the surveillance or investigation wings of any recognised stock exchange or clearing corporation; or
(iv)any law enforcement organization including the police or any central or state revenue authorities; or
(v)a public prosecutor in connection with any criminal proceedings.
Provided that sharing of information shall be in accordance with such assurances of confidentiality as the Board determines appropriate.
Explanation - Nothing in these regulations is intended to limit, or shall be construed to limit, the ability of the public prosecutor to share such evidence with potential witnesses or accused in connection with any criminal proceedings.
(3)The Original Information and identity provided by an Informant shall be held in confidence and exempted from disclosure under clauses (g) and (h) of sub-section (1) of section 8 of the Right to Information Act, 2005 (No. 22 of 2005).
(4)Subject to the law of evidence for the time being in force, nothing in these regulations shall prejudice the right of the Board to use or to rely on information received otherwise.
(5)No person shall have the right to compel disclosure of the identity, existence of an Informant or the information provided by an Informant, except to the extent relied upon in any proceeding initiated against such person by the Board.
Explanation 1. – The confidentiality in respect of the identity and existence of the Informant shall be maintained throughout the process of investigation, inquiry and examination as well as during any proceedings before the Board and save where the evidence of the Informant is required during such proceedings, advance notice of such evidence may be provided to the noticee at least seven (7) working days prior to the date of the scheduled hearing for evidence.
7I. (1) Every person required to have a Code of Conduct under these regulations shall ensure that such a Code of Conduct provides for suitable protection against any discharge, termination, demotion, suspension, threats, harassment, directly or indirectly or discrimination against any employee who files a Voluntary Information Disclosure Form, irrespective of whether the information is considered or rejected by the Board or he or she is eligible for a Reward under these regulations, by reason of:
(i)filing a Voluntary Information Disclosure Form under these regulations;
(ii)testifying in, participating in, or otherwise assisting or aiding the Board in any investigation, inquiry, audit, examination or proceeding instituted or about to be instituted for an alleged violation of insider trading laws or in any manner aiding the enforcement action taken by the Board; or
(iii)breaching any confidentiality agreement or provisions of any terms and conditions of employment or engagement solely to prevent any employee from cooperating with the
Board in any manner.
Explanation 1. - For the purpose of this Chapter, “employee” means any individual who during employment may become privy to information relating to violation of insider trading laws and files a Voluntary Information Disclosure Form under these regulations and is a director, partner, regular or contractual employee, but does not include an advocate.
Explanation 2. - Nothing in this regulation shall require the employee to establish that,-
(i)the Board has taken up any enforcement action in furtherance of information provided by such person; or
(ii)the information provided fulfils the criteria of being considered as an Original Information under these regulations.
(2)Nothing in these regulations shall prohibit any Informant who believes that he or she has been subject to retaliation or victimisation by his or her employer, from approaching the competent court or tribunal for appropriate relief.
(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (2), any employer who violates this Chapter may be liable for penalty, debarment, suspension, and/or criminal prosecution by the Board, as the case may be:
7J. (1) Any term in an agreement (oral or written) or Code of Conduct, is void in so far as it purports to preclude any person, other than an advocate, from submitting to the Board information relating to the violation of the securities laws that has occurred, is occurring or has a reasonable belief that it would occur.
(2)No person shall by way of any threat or act impede an individual from communicating with the Board, including enforcing or threatening to enforce, a confidentiality agreement (other than agreements related to legal representations of a client and communications there under) with respect to such communications.
Explanation. - No employer shall require an employee to notify him of any Voluntary Information Disclosure Form filed with the Board or to seek its prior permission or consent or guidance of any person engaged by the employer before or after such filing.
7K. (1) Nothing in these regulations shall be deemed to provide any amnesty or immunity to an Informant for violation of securities law.
(2)Where an action against an Informant is deemed appropriate the Board may take into account the co-operation rendered in the final determination of any penalty, sanction, direction or settlement thereof, as the case may be.
(3)Where an action against an Informant is deemed appropriate, the Board while determining the value of monetary sanctions shall not take into account the monetary sanctions that the Informant is ordered to pay or that which any other person is ordered to pay if the liability of such other person is based substantially on the conduct that the Informant directed, planned, or initiated.
(4)An Informant who may be liable for enforcement action by the Board based on his or her conduct in connection with securities laws violations reported in the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form filed with the Board, may simultaneously or at any time thereafter file an application seeking settlement with confidentiality under Chapter IX of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018.
(5)Notwithstanding any action taken by the Board against an Informant, the Informant may, after payment of any monetary amounts be eligible for a Reward.
7L. (1) The Informant Incentive Committee shall be assisted by the Office of Informant Protection.
(2)The Informant Incentive Committee shall give its recommendations to the Board on the following matters,-
i.Eligibility of Informant for reward;
ii.Determination under regulations 7E and 7G; and
iii.Such other issues relating to Informant as the Board may require from time to time.
7M. (1) The Board shall upload on its website the following,-
i.Annual report of the Office of Informant Protection;
ii.Press release informing the public that an intimation to the Informant has been issued under Regulation 7D;
iii.Press release informing the public that a Reward has been paid under these regulations and the amount of Monetary Sanctions recovered pursuant to the information provided by the Informant;
iv.The Order issuing the Reward;
8.(1) The board of directors of every company, whose securities are listed on a stock exchange, shall formulate and publish on its official website, a code of practices and procedures for fair disclosure of unpublished price sensitive information that it would follow in order to adhere to each of the principles set out in Schedule A to these regulations, without diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner.
NOTE: This provision intends to require every company whose securities are listed on stock exchanges to formulate a stated framework and policy for fair disclosure of events and occurrences that could impact price discovery in the market for its securities. Principles such as, equality of access to information, publication of policies such as those on dividend, inorganic growth pursuits, calls and meetings with analysts, publication of transcripts of such calls and meetings, and the like are set out in the schedule.
(2)Every such code of practices and procedures for fair disclosure of unpublished price sensitive information and every amendment thereto shall be promptly intimated to the stock exchanges where the securities are listed.
NOTE: This provision is aimed at requiring transparent disclosure of the policy formulated in sub-regulation (1).
9.(1) The board of directors of every listed company and 26[the board of directors or head(s) of the organisation of every intermediary shall ensure that the chief executive officer or managing director] shall formulate a code of conduct 27[with their approval] to regulate, monitor and report trading by its 28[designated persons and immediate relatives of designated persons] towards achieving compliance with these regulations, adopting the minimum standards set out in Schedule B 29[(in case of a listed company) and Schedule C (in case of an intermediary)] to these regulations, without diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner.
30[Explanation – For the avoidance of doubt it is clarified that intermediaries, which are listed, would be required to formulate a code of conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading by their designated persons, by adopting the minimum standards set out in Schedule B with respect to trading in their own securities and in Schedule C with respect to trading in other securities.]
NOTE: It is intended that every company whose securities are listed on stock exchanges and every 31[intermediary] registered with SEBI is mandatorily required to formulate a code of conduct governing trading by 32[designated persons and their immediate relatives]. The standards set out in the 33[schedules] are required to be addressed by such code of conduct.
26 Substituted for the words “market intermediary” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
27Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
28Substituted for the words “employees and other connected persons” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
29Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
30Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
31Substituted for the words “market intermediary” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
32Substituted for the words “its employees” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
33Substituted for the word “schedule” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
(2) 34[The board of directors or head(s) of the organisation, of every other person who is
required to handle unpublished price sensitive information in the course of business operations shall formulate a code of conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading by their designated persons and immediate relative of designated persons towards achieving compliance with these regulations, adopting the minimum standards set out in Schedule C to these regulations, without diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner.
Explanation - Professional firms such as auditors, accountancy firms, law firms, analysts, insolvency professional entities, consultants, banks etc., assisting or advising listed companies shall be collectively referred to as fiduciaries for the purpose of these regulations.]
NOTE: 35[This provision is intended to mandate persons other than listed companies and intermediaries that are required to handle unpublished price sensitive information to formulate a code of conduct governing trading in securities by their designated persons. These entities include professional firms such as auditors, accountancy firms, law firms, analysts, insolvency professional entities, consultants, banks etc., assisting or advising listed companies. Even entities that normally operate outside the capital market may handle unpublished price sensitive information. This provision would mandate all of them to formulate a code of conduct.]
34 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019). Prior to substitution Sub-regulation (2) read as under:
“Every other person who is required to handle unpublished price sensitive information in the course of business operations shall formulate a code of conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading by employees and other connected persons towards achieving compliance with these regulations, adopting the minimum standards set out in Schedule B to these regulations, without diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner.”
35 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019). Prior to substitution the Note read as under:
“This provision is intended to mandate persons other than listed companies and market intermediaries that are required to handle unpublished price sensitive information to formulate a code of conduct governing trading in securities by their employees. These entities include professional firms such as auditors, accountancy firms, law firms, analysts, consultants etc., assisting or advising listed companies, market intermediaries and other capital market participants. Even entities that normally operate outside the capital market may handle unpublished price sensitive information. This provision would mandate all of them to formulate a code of conduct.”
(3)Every listed company, 36[intermediary] and other persons formulating a code of conduct shall identify and designate a compliance officer to administer the code of conduct and other requirements under these regulations.
NOTE: This provision is intended to designate a senior officer as the compliance officer with the responsibility to administer the code of conduct and monitor compliance with these regulations.
37[(4) For the purpose of sub regulation (1) and (2), the board of directors or such other analogous authority shall in consultation with the compliance officer specify the designated persons to be covered by the code of conduct on the basis of their role and function in the organisation and the access that such role and function would provide to unpublished price sensitive information in addition to seniority and professional designation and shall include:-
(i)Employees of such listed company, intermediary or fiduciary designated on the basis of their functional role or access to unpublished price sensitive information in the organization by their board of directors or analogous body;
(ii)Employees of material subsidiaries of such listed companies designated on the basis of their functional role or access to unpublished price sensitive information in the organization by their board of directors;
(iii)All promoters of listed companies and promoters who are individuals or investment companies for intermediaries or fiduciaries;
(iv)Chief Executive Officer and employees upto two levels below Chief Executive Officer of such listed company, intermediary, fiduciary and its material subsidiaries irrespective of their functional role in the company or ability to have access to unpublished price sensitive information;
36 Substituted for the words “market intermediary” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
37Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
(v)Any support staff of listed company, intermediary or fiduciary such as IT staff or secretarial staff who have access to unpublished price sensitive information.]
9A. (1) The Chief Executive Officer, Managing Director or such other analogous person of a listed company, intermediary or fiduciary shall put in place adequate and effective system of internal controls to ensure compliance with the requirements given in these regulations to prevent insider trading.
(2) The internal controls shall include the following:
(a). all employees who have access to unpublished price sensitive information are identified as designated 39[person];
(b). all the unpublished price sensitive information shall be identified and its confidentiality shall be maintained as per the requirements of these regulations;
(c). adequate restrictions shall be placed on communication or procurement of unpublished price sensitive information as required by these regulations;
(d). lists of all employees and other persons with whom unpublished price sensitive information is shared shall be maintained and confidentiality agreements shall be signed or notice shall be served to all such employees and persons;
(e). all other relevant requirements specified under these regulations shall be complied with;
(f).
periodic process review to evaluate effectiveness of such internal controls.
38Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
39Substituted for the word “employee” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019)
(3)The board of directors of every listed company and the board of directors or head(s) of the organisation of intermediaries and fiduciaries shall ensure that the Chief Executive Officer or the Managing Director or such other analogous person ensures compliance with regulation 9 and sub-regulations (1) and (2) of this regulation.
(4)The Audit Committee of a listed company or other analogous body for intermediary or fiduciary shall review compliance with the provisions of these regulations at least once in a financial year and shall verify that the systems for internal control are adequate and are operating effectively.
(5)Every listed company shall formulate written policies and procedures for inquiry in case of leak of unpublished price sensitive information or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive information, which shall be approved by board of directors of the company and accordingly initiate appropriate inquiries on becoming aware of leak of unpublished price sensitive information or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive information and inform the Board promptly of such leaks, inquiries and results of such inquiries.
10.Any contravention of these regulations shall be dealt with by the Board in accordance with the Act.
40[11. (1) In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the provisions of these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue directions through guidance notes or circulars:
Provided that where any direction is issued by the Board in a specific case relating to interpretation or application of any provision of these regulations, it shall be done only after affording a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the concerned persons and after recording reasons for the direction.]
41[(2) For the purpose of Chapter IIIA, the Board may,-
i.by circular, specify procedures and processes for carrying out the purposes of these regulations;
ii.remove any difficulty in the interpretation or application or implementation of the provisions of these regulations, by issuing clarifications and specifying procedures through circulars or guidelines.]
12.(1) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 are hereby repealed.
40 Renumbered as 11 (1) by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. December 26, 2019)
41 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. December 26, 2019)
(2)Notwithstanding such repeal,—
(a)the previous operation of the repealed regulations or anything duly done or suffered thereunder, any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under the repealed regulations, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against the repealed regulations, or any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid, shall remain unaffected as if the repealed regulations had never been repealed; and
(b)anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken including any adjudication, enquiry or investigation commenced or show-cause notice issued under the repealed regulations prior to such repeal, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of these regulations;
1.(1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2019.
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions and variations shall be construed accordingly,—
(a)“Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992;
(b)“appropriately regulated” entity means an entity which is regulated by the securities market regulator or the banking regulator of home jurisdiction or otherwise, in the same capacity in which it proposes to make investments in India;
Page 1 of 29
(c)“Bilateral Memorandum of Understanding with the Board” shall mean a bilateral
Memorandum of Understanding between the Board and any authority outside India that provides for information sharing arrangement as specified under clause (ib) of sub-section
(2) of Section 11 of the Act;
(d)“Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 of the Act;
(e)"certificate" means a certificate of registration granted to a foreign portfolio investor by the designated depository participant on behalf of the Board under these regulations;
(f)“control” includes the right to appoint majority of the directors or to control the management or policy decisions exercisable by a person or persons acting individually or in concert, directly or indirectly, including by virtue of shareholding or management rights or shareholders agreements or voting agreements or in any other manner;
(g)“custodian” means a person registered under the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Custodian) Regulations, 1996;
(h)"designated bank" means a scheduled bank in India, which has been authorised by the Reserve Bank of India to act as a banker to foreign portfolio investors;
(i)“designated depository participant” means a person who has been approved by the Board under Chapter III of these regulations;
(j)“foreign portfolio investor” means a person who has been registered under Chapter II of these regulations and shall be deemed to be an intermediary in terms of the provisions of the Act;
(k)"Form" means an application form for obtaining registration as foreign portfolio investor as notified by the Government of India or as specified by the Board;
(l)"International Financial Services Centre" or "IFSC" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (q) of section 2 of the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005;
(m)“investment manager” shall include an entity performing the role of investment management or any equivalent role, including trustee(s);
(n)“non-resident Indian” and “overseas citizen of India” shall have the same meaning as assigned to such terms under 1[rule 2 of the Foreign Exchange Management (Non-debt Instruments) Rules, 2019] made under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999;
(o)"offshore derivative instrument" means any instrument, by whatever name called, which is issued overseas by a foreign portfolio investor against securities held by it in India, as its underlying;
(q)“resident Indian” shall have the same meaning assigned to the term “person resident in India” under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999;
1Substituted for “regulation 2 of the Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Security by a Person Resident Outside India) Regulations, 2017” by the SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulation, 2019, w.e.f. 19-12-2019.
Page 2 of 29
(r)"Schedule" means a Schedule to these regulations;
(s)‘stock exchange’ means a recognised stock exchange under the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956.
3.(1) No person shall buy, sell or otherwise deal in securities as a foreign portfolio investor unless it has obtained a certificate granted by a designated depository participant on behalf of the Board.
Explanation – An offshore fund floated by an asset management company that has received no-objection certificate in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996, shall be required to obtain registration as a foreign portfolio investor, for investment in securities in India, within one hundred and eighty days from the date of notification of these regulations.
(2)An application for the grant of certificate as a foreign portfolio investor shall be made to a designated depository participant in the Form specified by the Government or the Board from time to time and shall be supported by the fee specified in Part A of the Second Schedule.
Eligibility criteria of foreign portfolio investor.
4 A designated depository participant shall consider an application for grant of certificate of registration as a foreign portfolio investor if the applicant satisfies the following conditions namely: -
(a)the applicant is not a resident Indian;
(b)the applicant is not a non-resident Indian or an overseas citizen of India;
(c)non-resident Indians or overseas citizens of India or resident Indian individuals can be constituents of the applicant provided they meet conditions specified by the Board from time to time;
(d)the applicant is a resident of the country whose securities market regulator is a signatory
to the International Organization of Securities Commission’s Multilateral
Page 3 of 29
Memorandum of Understanding (Appendix A Signatories) or a signatory to the bilateral Memorandum of Understanding with the Board:
Provided that an applicant being Government or Government related investor shall be considered as eligible for registration, if such applicant is a resident in the country as may be approved by the Government of India;
(e)the applicant being a bank is a resident of a country whose central bank is a member of Bank for International Settlements:
Provided that a central bank applicant need not be a member of Bank for International Settlements;
(f)the applicant or its underlying investors contributing twenty-five per cent or more in the corpus of the applicant or identified on the basis of control, shall not be the person(s) mentioned in the Sanctions List notified from time to time by the United Nations Security Council and is not a resident in the country identified in the public statement of Financial Action Task Force as –
(i)a jurisdiction having a strategic Anti-Money Laundering or Combating the Financing of Terrorism deficiencies to which counter measures apply; or
(ii)a jurisdiction that has not made sufficient progress in addressing the deficiencies or has not committed to an action plan developed with the Financial Action Task Force to address the deficiencies;
(g)the applicant is a fit and proper person based on the criteria specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008;
(h)any other criteria specified by the Board from time to time:
5.An applicant seeking registration as a foreign portfolio investor may apply in one of the categories mentioned hereunder or any other category as may be specified by the Board from time to time –
(a)"Category I foreign portfolio investor" which shall include –
(i)Government and Government related investors such as central banks, sovereign wealth funds, international or multilateral organizations or agencies including entities controlled or at least 75% directly or indirectly owned by such Government and Government related investor(s);
(ii)Pension funds and university funds;
(iii)Appropriately regulated entities such as insurance or reinsurance entities, banks, asset management companies, investment managers, investment advisors, portfolio managers, broker dealers and swap dealers;
Page 4 of 29
(iv)Entities from the Financial Action Task Force member countries 2[, or from any country specified by the Central Government by an order or by way of an agreement or treaty with other sovereign Governments,] which are –
I.appropriately regulated funds;
II.unregulated funds whose investment manager is appropriately regulated and registered as a Category I foreign portfolio investor:
Provided that the investment manager undertakes the responsibility of all the acts of commission or omission of such unregulated fund;
III.university related endowments of such universities that have been in existence for more than five years;
(v)An entity (A) whose investment manager is from the Financial Action Task Force member country and such an investment manager is registered as a Category I foreign portfolio investor; or (B) which is at least seventy-five per cent owned, directly or indirectly by another entity, eligible under sub-clause (ii), (iii) and (iv) of clause (a) of this regulation and such an eligible entity is from a Financial Action Task Force member country:
Provided that such an investment manager or eligible entity undertakes the responsibility of all the acts of commission or omission of the applicants seeking registration under this sub-clause.
(b)"Category II foreign portfolio investor" shall include all the investors not eligible under Category I foreign portfolio investors such as –
(i)appropriately regulated funds not eligible as Category-I foreign portfolio investor;
(ii)endowments and foundations;
(iii)charitable organisations;
(iv)corporate bodies;
(v)family offices;
(vi)Individuals;
(vii)appropriately regulated entities investing on behalf of their client, as per conditions specified by the Board from time to time;
(viii)Unregulated funds in the form of limited partnership and trusts;
Explanation: An applicant incorporated or established in an International Financial Services Centre shall be deemed to be appropriately regulated.
2Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020
Page 5 of 29
6.(1) The Board or the designated depository participant may require the applicant to furnish such further information or clarification as may be considered necessary for the grant of the certificate of registration as a foreign portfolio investor.
(2)The applicant or his authorised representative shall, if so required by the Board or the designated depository participant, appear before them for personal representation in connection with the grant of a certificate.
7.(1) The designated depository participant shall on behalf of the Board grant the certificate of registration, bearing registration number generated by National Securities Depositories Limited, as specified in the First Schedule to an applicant if it is satisfied that the applicant is eligible and fulfils the requirements as specified in these regulations.
(2)The designated depository participant shall endeavour to dispose of the application for grant of certificate of registration as soon as possible but not later than thirty days after receipt of application by the designated depository participant, or after the information called for under regulation 6 has been furnished; whichever is later.
(3)Upon grant of certificate of registration to the applicant, the designated depository participant shall remit the fees, as specified in Part A of the Second Schedule, received from the applicant to the Board.
(4)If an applicant seeking registration as a foreign portfolio investor has any grievance with respect to its application or if the designated depository participant has any question in respect of interpretation of any provision of this regulation, it may approach the Board for appropriate instructions.
(5)The foreign portfolio investor needs to have a valid registration as long as it is holding securities or derivatives in India:
Provided that a foreign portfolio investor whose registration is not valid and who is holding securities or derivatives in India shall be allowed to sell such securities or wind up their open position in derivatives within one year from the date of publication of these regulations.
Application to conform to the requirements
8 (1) An application for grant of certificate of registration to act as a foreign portfolio investor, which is not complete in all respects or is false or misleading in any material particular or does not satisfy the requirements specified in these regulations shall be deemed to be deficient and liable to be rejected by the designated depository participant:
Provided that before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard and to remove the deficiency, within the time as specified by the designated depository participant.
Page 6 of 29
(2)The decision to reject the application shall be communicated by the designated depository participant to the applicant in writing indicating the grounds for rejection of the application.
(3)The applicant, who is aggrieved by the decision of the designated depository participant under sub-regulation (1) may, within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of communication under sub-regulation (2), apply to the Board for reconsideration of the decision of the designated depository participant:
Provided that such application for reconsideration shall not be considered by the Board where the rejection was on account of technical reasons such as non-submission of complete information, documents, including non-payment of specified fees.
(4)The Board shall, as soon as possible, after considering the submissions made in the application seeking reconsideration made under sub-regulation (3) and after giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard, communicate its decision in writing to the applicant.
9.(1) Subject to the compliance with the provisions of the Act, these regulations and the circulars issued thereunder, the registration granted by the designated depository participant on behalf of the Board under these regulations shall be permanent unless suspended or cancelled by the Board or surrendered by the foreign portfolio investor.
(2)The suspension and cancellation of the certificate of registration granted by the Board under these regulations, shall be dealt with in the manner as provided in Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.
(3)When the foreign portfolio investor fails to pay the required fees for continuance of registration within the specified due date and such foreign portfolio investor does not have any cash or security or derivative position in India, such foreign portfolio investor shall be deemed to have applied for surrender of its registration and the designated depository participant of such foreign portfolio investor shall process the surrender after obtaining the approval from the Board.
(4)Any foreign portfolio investor desirous of surrendering the certificate of registration may request for such surrender to the designated depository participant who shall accept the surrender of the certificate of registration after obtaining approval from the Board.
10.(1) No person shall act as a designated depository participant unless it has obtained the approval of the Board.
(2)An application for approval to act as a designated depository participant shall be made to the Board through a depository with which the applicant has an agreement to act as a participant and shall be accompanied by the application fee specified in Part B of the Second Schedule which shall be paid in the manner specified therein.
(3)The depository shall forward the application to the Board, as early as possible, but not later than thirty days from the date of its receipt by the depository, along with its recommendations and after certifying that the participant has complied with the eligibility criteria as provided for in these regulations.
11.(1) The Board shall not consider an application for the grant of approval as designated depository participant unless the applicant satisfies the following conditions,
(a)the applicant is a registered depository participant under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996;
(b)the applicant is a registered Custodian under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Custodian) Regulations, 1996;
(c)the applicant is an Authorised Dealer Category-1 bank authorised by the Reserve Bank of India under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999;
(d)the applicant has a multinational presence, either through its branches or through agency relationships with overseas intermediaries regulated in their respective home jurisdictions;
(e)the applicant has systems and procedures to comply with the requirements of the Financial Action Task Force Standards, Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, Rules prescribed thereunder and the circulars issued from time to time by the Board;
(f)the applicant is a fit and proper person based on the criteria specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; and
(g)any other criteria as may be specified by the Board from time to time.
(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, the Board may consider an application from an entity, regulated in India or in its home jurisdiction, for grant of approval to act as designated depository participant, upon being satisfied that the applicant has sufficient experience in providing custodial services and that the grant of such approval is in the interest of the development of the securities market:
Provided that such entity shall be registered with the Board as a participant and custodian, and shall have a tie up with Authorised Dealer Category-1 bank.
12.(1) The Board may require the applicant or the depository of which the applicant is a participant to furnish such further information or clarification as may be considered necessary for grant of approval to act as a designated depository participant.
(2)The applicant or its authorised representative shall, if so required by the Board, appear before it for personal representation in connection with the grant of approval.
13.(1) After considering the application made under regulation 10 of these regulations, the Board may grant approval to the applicant, upon being satisfied that the applicant is eligible and fulfils the requirements as specified in these regulations including payment of fees as specified in Part B of Second Schedule.
(2)The Board shall dispose of the application for grant of approval as soon as possible but not later than thirty days after receipt of application by the Board or, after all the information called for under regulation 12 has been furnished, whichever is later.
14.An application for grant of approval to act as designated depository participant which is not complete in all respects or is false or misleading in any material particular, shall be deemed to be deficient and shall be liable to be rejected by the Board:
Provided that, before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given a reasonable opportunity to remove the deficiency, within the time as specified by the Board.
15.(1) Where an application for grant of an approval does not satisfy the requirements specified in these regulations, the Board may reject the application after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(2)The decision to reject the application shall be communicated by the Board to the applicant in writing stating therein the grounds on which the application has been rejected.
(3)The applicant, who is aggrieved by the decision of the Board under sub-regulation (1) may, within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of communication under sub-regulation (2), apply to the Board for reconsideration of its decision.
(4)The Board shall, as soon as possible, in light of the submissions made in the application for reconsideration made under sub-regulation (3) and after giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard, convey its decision in writing to the applicant.
Validity of approval.
16.Subject to the compliance with the provisions of the Act, these regulations and the circulars issued thereunder, the approval granted by the Board under these regulations shall be permanent unless suspended or withdrawn by the Board or surrendered by the designated depository participant.
17.Where any designated depository participant who has been granted approval under these regulations-
(a)fails to comply with any conditions subject to which an approval has been granted to him under these regulations, or
(b)contravenes any of the provisions of the securities laws or directions, instructions or circulars issued thereunder;
the Board may, without prejudice to any action under the securities laws or directions, instructions or circulars issued thereunder, by an order suspend or withdraw such approval after providing the designated depository participant a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
18.(1) Any designated depository participant, who has been granted approval under these regulations, desirous of surrendering the approval granted, may make a request for such surrender to the Board.
19.No foreign portfolio investor shall make any investment in securities in India without complying with the provisions of this Chapter.
20.(1) A foreign portfolio investor shall invest only in the following securities, namely-
(a)shares, debentures and warrants issued by a body corporate; listed or to be listed on a recognized stock exchange in India;
Page 10 of 29
(b)units of schemes launched by mutual funds under Chapter V, VI-A and VI-B of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Fund) Regulations, 1996;
(c)units of schemes floated by a Collective Investment Scheme in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Collective Investment Schemes) Regulations, 1999;
(d)derivatives traded on a recognized stock exchange;
(e)units of real estate investment trusts, infrastructure investment trusts and units of Category III Alternative Investment Funds registered with the Board;
(f)Indian Depository Receipts;
(g)any debt securities or other instruments as permitted by the Reserve Bank of India for foreign portfolio investors to invest in from time to time; and
(h)such other instruments as specified by the Board from time to time.
(2)Where a foreign portfolio investor, prior to commencement of these regulations, holds equity shares in a company whose shares are not listed on any recognised stock exchange, and continues to hold such shares after the initial public offering and listing thereof, such shares shall be subject to lock-in for the same period, if any, as is applicable to shares held by a foreign direct investor placed in similar position, under the policy of the Government of India relating to foreign direct investment for the time being in force.
(3)Nothing contained in sub-regulation (2) shall be deemed to prejudice the applicability of any other law, regulation or guideline.
(4)In respect of investments in the secondary market, the following additional conditions shall apply –
(a)A foreign portfolio investor shall transact in the securities in India only on the basis of taking and giving delivery of securities purchased or sold;
(b)Nothing contained in clause (a) shall apply to –
(i)any transactions in derivatives on a recognized stock exchange;
(ii)short selling transactions in accordance with the framework specified by the Board;
(iii)any transaction in securities pursuant to an agreement entered into with the merchant banker in the process of market making or subscribing to unsubscribed portion of the issue in accordance with Chapter IX of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;
(iv)any other transaction specified by the Board;
(c)The transaction involving dealing in securities by a foreign portfolio investor shall be only through stock brokers registered with the Board;
(d)Nothing contained in clause (c) of this sub-regulation shall apply to –
Page 11 of 29
(i)transactions in Government securities and such other securities falling under the purview of the Reserve Bank of India carried out in the manner as specified by the Reserve Bank of India;
(ii)sale of securities in response to a letter of offer sent by an acquirer in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
(iii)sale of securities in response to an offer made by any promoter or acquirer in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity shares) Regulations, 2009;
(iv)sale of securities in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-back of Securities) Regulations, 2018;
(v)divestment of securities in response to an offer by Indian companies in accordance with Operative Guidelines for Disinvestment of Shares by Indian Companies in the overseas market through issue of American Depository Receipts or Global Depository Receipts as notified by the Government of India from time to time;
(vi)any bid for, or acquisition of, securities in response to an offer for disinvestment of shares made by the Central Government or any State Government;
(vii)any transaction in securities pursuant to an agreement entered into with merchant banker in the process of market making or subscribing to unsubscribed portion of the issue in accordance with Chapter IX of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;
(viii)transactions in corporate bonds by foreign portfolio investors;
(ix)transactions on the electronic book provider platform of recognised stock exchanges;
(x)transactions to receive, hold and sell unlisted securities as referred at regulation 20(2) and transactions in unlisted securities received through involuntary corporate actions including a scheme of a merger or demerger approved in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 as well as the applicable guidelines issued by the Board or pursuant to implementation of any resolution plan approved under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 or in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Government of India or the Reserve Bank of India or any other regulator for a scheme of debt resolution:
Provided that such unlisted holdings of the foreign portfolio investor shall be treated as Foreign Direct Investment;
(xi)transactions for transfer of right entitlements;
(xii)purchase or sale transactions of illiquid or suspended or delisted securities by a foreign portfolio investor;
Page 12 of 29
Explanation – Illiquid securities shall mean those securities that are not frequently traded in terms of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;
(xiii)transactions between registered foreign portfolio investors, who are multi investment manager structure of the same beneficial owner and have common Permanent Account Number; and
(xiv)any other transaction as may be specified by the Board;
(e)A foreign portfolio investor shall hold, deliver or cause to be delivered securities only in the dematerialized form:
Provided that any shares held in the physical form, before the commencement of these regulations, may continue to be held in the physical form, if such shares cannot be dematerialised:
Provided further that all the Rights Entitlements may be held or transferred in non- dematerialized form.
(5)In respect of investments in the debt securities, the foreign portfolio investors shall also comply with terms, conditions or directions, specified or issued by the Board or Reserve Bank of India, from time to time, in addition to other conditions specified in these regulations.
(6)Unless otherwise approved by the Board, securities shall be registered in the name of the foreign portfolio investor as a beneficial owner as defined in clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Depositories Act, 1996.
(7)The purchase of equity shares of each company by a single foreign portfolio investor including its investor group shall be below ten per cent of the total paid-up equity capital on a fully diluted basis of the company:
Provided that where the total investment under these regulations by a foreign portfolio investor including its investor group exceeds the threshold of below ten per cent of the total paid up equity capital in a listed or to be listed company on a fully diluted basis, the foreign portfolio investor shall divest the excess holding within five trading days from the date of settlement of the trades resulting in the breach:
Provided further that in case the foreign portfolio investor fails to divest the excess holding, the entire investment in the company by such foreign portfolio investor including its investor group shall be considered as investment under the Foreign Direct Investment, as per the procedure specified by the Board and the foreign portfolio investor and its investor group shall not make further portfolio investment in that company under these regulations,
Explanation I – ‘investor group’ shall have the meaning as provided under regulation 22(3) of these regulations.
Explanation II – ‘fully diluted basis’ means the total number of shares that would be outstanding if all possible sources of conversion are exercised.
Page 13 of 29
(8)An entity, registered as a foreign portfolio investor shall be permitted to invest in Indian securities as a person resident outside India in accordance with provisions of 3[the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, rules and regulations made thereunder].
(9)4[***]
21.(1) No foreign portfolio investor may issue, subscribe to or otherwise deal in offshore derivative instruments, directly or indirectly, unless the following conditions are satisfied –
(a)such offshore derivative instruments are issued only by persons registered as Category I foreign portfolio investor;
(b)such offshore derivative instruments are issued only to persons eligible for registration as Category I foreign portfolio investors;
Explanation – For the purpose of this sub-regulation, where an entity has an investment manager who is from the Financial Action Task Force member country, the investment manager shall not be required to be registered as a Category I foreign portfolio investor;
(c)such offshore derivative instruments are issued after compliance with the ‘know your client’ norms as specified by the Board; and
(d)such other conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time.
(2)A foreign portfolio investor shall ensure that any transfer of offshore derivative instruments issued by or on behalf of it, is subject to the following conditions –
(a)such offshore derivative instruments are transferred to persons subject to the fulfilment of sub-regulation (1); and
(b)prior consent of the foreign portfolio investor is obtained for such transfer, except in cases, where the persons to whom the offshore derivative instruments are to be transferred, are pre-approved by the foreign portfolio investor.
3Substituted for “Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Security by a Person Resident Outside India) Regulations, 2017 made under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999” by the SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulation, 2019, w.e.f. 19-12-2019.
4Sub-regulation 9 omitted by the SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulation, 2019, w.e.f. 19-
12-2019. Prior to the omission, Sub-clause 9 read as under:
“In cases where the Government of India enters into agreements or treaties with other sovereign Governments and where such agreements or treaties specifically recognize certain entities to be distinct and separate, the Board may, during the validity of such agreements or treaties, recognize them as such, subject to conditions as may be specified by it.”
Page 14 of 29
22.(1) The foreign portfolio investor shall –
(a)comply with the provisions of these regulations, as far as they may apply, circulars issued thereunder and any other terms and conditions specified by the Board from time to time;
(b)forthwith inform the Board and designated depository participant in writing, if any information or particulars previously submitted to the Board or designated depository participant are found to be false or misleading, in any material respect;
(c)forthwith inform the Board and designated depository participant in writing, if there is any material change in the information including any direct or indirect change in its structure or ownership or control, previously furnished by him to the Board or designated depository participant;
(d)as and when required by the Board or any other Government agency in India, submit any information, record or documents in relation to its activities as a foreign portfolio investor;
(e)forthwith inform the Board and the designated depository participant, in case of any penalty, pending litigation or proceedings, findings of inspections or investigations for which action may have been taken or is in the process of being taken by an overseas regulator against it;
(f)obtain a Permanent Account Number from the Income Tax Department;
(g)in relation to its activities as foreign portfolio investor, at all times, subject itself to the extant Indian laws, rules, regulations, guidelines and circulars issued from time to time;
(h)be a fit and proper person based on the criteria specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008;
(i)undertake necessary KYC on its shareholders/investors in accordance with the rules applicable to it in the jurisdiction where it is organised;
Page 15 of 29
(j)provide any additional information or documents including beneficiary ownership details of their clients as may be required by the designated depository participant or the Board or any other enforcement agency to ensure compliance with the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 and the rules and regulations specified thereunder, the Financial Action Task Force standards and circulars issued from time to time by the Board; and
(k)ensure that securities held by foreign portfolio investors are free from all encumbrances.
Explanation – An encumbrance created to meet any statutory and regulatory requirements shall not be considered under this clause.
(2)In case of jointly held depository accounts, each of the joint holders shall meet the requirements specified for foreign portfolio investor and each shall be deemed to be holding a depository account as a foreign portfolio investor.
(3)Multiple entities registered as foreign portfolio investors and directly or indirectly, having common ownership of more than fifty per cent or common control, shall be treated as part of the same investor group and the investment limits of all such entities shall be clubbed at the investment limit as applicable to a single foreign portfolio investor:
Provided that in case the limit is breached due to transaction(s) by foreign portfolio investors under these regulations, the excess holding shall be divested within five trading days from the date of settlement of the trades causing the breach.
Provided further that in case the foreign portfolio investor fails to divest the excess holding, the entire investment in the company by such foreign portfolio investors including its investor group shall be considered as investment under the Foreign Direct Investment as per the procedure specified by the Board and the foreign portfolio investor and its investor group shall not make further portfolio investment in that company under these regulations.
(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (3), the clubbing of investment limit of foreign portfolio investors having common control shall not be applicable where –
(a)foreign portfolio investors are appropriately regulated public retail funds; or
(b)the foreign portfolio investors are public retail funds where the majority is owned by appropriately regulated public retail fund on look through basis; or
(c)foreign portfolio investors are public retail funds and investment managers of such foreign portfolio investors are appropriately regulated.
Explanation - Public retail funds means -
(i)mutual funds or unit trusts which are open for subscription to retail investors and which do not have specific investor type requirements like accredited investors;
(ii)insurance companies where segregated portfolio with one to one correlation with a single investor is not maintained; and
(iii)pension funds.
Page 16 of 29
23.A foreign portfolio investor shall, at all times, abide by the code of conduct as specified in the Third Schedule of these regulations.
24.An applicant seeking registration as a foreign portfolio investor shall engage a designated depository participant to avail its services for obtaining a certificate of registration as foreign portfolio investor and at all times the designated depository participant and the custodian of the foreign portfolio investor shall be the same entity.
25.(1) A foreign portfolio investor or a global custodian who is acting on behalf of the foreign portfolio investor, shall enter into an agreement with the designated depository participant engaged by it to act as a custodian, before making any investment under these regulations.
(2)In addition to the obligation of custodian under any other regulations, the custodian shall –
(a)report to the depositories and the Board on a daily basis the transactions entered into by the foreign portfolio investor in the form and manner specified by the Board or depositories from time to time;
(b)monitor investment of the foreign portfolio investors;
(c)maintain the relevant true and fair records, books of accounts, and documents including the records relating to transactions of foreign portfolio investors;
(d)report the holdings of foreign portfolio investors who form part of investor group to the depositories and the depositories shall club the investment limits to ensure that combined holdings of all these foreign portfolio investors remains below ten per cent of the total paid-up equity capital on a fully diluted basis of a investee company at any time.
26.A foreign portfolio investor shall appoint a branch of a bank authorised by the Reserve Bank of India for opening a foreign currency denominated account and special non-resident rupee account before making any investments in India.
Appointment of compliance officer.
27.(1) Every foreign portfolio investor shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be responsible for monitoring the compliance of the Act, rules and regulations, notifications, guidelines and instructions issued by the designated depository participant or the Board or the Central Government:
Provided that in case of a foreign portfolio investor who is an individual, such individual shall be responsible for monitoring the compliance of the Act, rules and regulations, notifications, guidelines and instructions issued by the designated depository participant or the Board or the Central Government.
(2)The compliance officer shall immediately and independently report any non-compliance observed by him to the Board and the designated depository participant.
28.(1) A foreign portfolio investor, or any of its employees shall not render directly or indirectly any investment advice about any security in the publicly accessible media, whether real-time or otherwise, unless a disclosure of its interest including long or short position in the said security has been made, while rendering such advice.
(2)In case, an employee of the foreign portfolio investor is rendering such advice, he shall also disclose the interest of his dependent family members and his employer including their long or short position in the said security, while rendering such advice.
29.Every foreign portfolio investor shall maintain the following books of accounts, records and documents, namely –
(a)true and fair accounts relating to remittances of funds to India for buying and selling; and realising capital gains or losses on investment made from such remittances;
(b)bank statement of accounts;
(c)contract notes relating to purchase and sale of securities; and
(d)communication including in electronic mode from and to the designated depository participants, stock brokers and depository participants regarding investments in securities.
31.(1) All designated depository participants who have been granted approval by the Board shall -
(a)comply with the provisions of these regulations, as far as they may apply, circulars issued thereunder and any other terms and conditions specified by the Board from time to time;
(b)forthwith inform the Board in writing, if any information or particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be false or misleading, in any material respect;
(c)forthwith inform the Board in writing, if there is any material change in the information previously furnished by him to the Board;
(d)furnish such information, record or documents to the Board and Reserve Bank of India, as may be required, in relation to its activities as a designated depository participant;
(e)ensure that only registered foreign portfolio investors are allowed to invest in securities market;
(f)have adequate systems to ensure that in case of jointly held depository accounts, each of the joint holders meet the requirements specified for foreign portfolio investors and shall perform KYC due diligence for each of the joint holders;
(g)in case of any penalty, pending litigation or proceedings, findings of inspections or investigations for which action may have been taken or is in the process of being taken by any regulator against a designated depository participant, the designated depository participant shall bring such information forthwith, to the attention of the Board, depositories and stock exchanges;
(h)be guided by the relevant circular on Anti-Money Laundering or Combating the Financing of Terrorism specified by the Board from time to time.
(2)The designated depository participant engaged by an applicant seeking registration as foreign portfolio investor shall –
(a)ascertain at the time of granting registration and whenever applicable, whether the applicant forms part of any investor group;
(b)open a dematerialized account for the applicant only after ensuring compliance with all the requirements under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 and rules and regulations specified thereunder, Financial Action Task Force standards and circulars issued by the Board in this regard, from time to time and shall also ensure that foreign portfolio investors comply with all these requirements on an ongoing basis;
Page 19 of 29
(c)carry out necessary due diligence to ensure that no other depository account per depository is held by any of the concerned applicant as a foreign portfolio investor, before opening a depository account
Provided that a foreign portfolio investor can open separate depository accounts for holding securities under the Voluntary Retention Route or any other scheme as specified by the Reserve Bank of India or the Board;
(d)collect and remit fees to the Board, in the manner as specified in Part A of Second Schedule; and
(e)in case of change in structure or constitution or direct or indirect change in common ownership or control reported by the foreign portfolio investor, re-assess the eligibility of such foreign portfolio investor.
(3)The designated depository participant shall maintain segregation of activities such that there is no conflict of interest between the activity of grant of registration to a foreign portfolio investor in the capacity of a designated depository participant and its other activities.
(4)The designated depository participant shall submit the reports as specified by the Board from time to time.
(5)The designated depository participant shall carry out an annual review of its systems, procedures and controls by an independent professional.
Explanation: The review shall cover the systems and procedures being followed by them to meet its obligations towards its clients, regulators and other relevant bodies and compliance with the requirements of the regulations and circulars issued by the Board.
(6)The designated depository participant shall furnish to the Board annual audit reports on its internal control for a particular calendar year within ninety days of the next calendar year.
32.(1) Every designated depository participant shall maintain the relevant true and fair records, books of accounts, and documents including the physical or electronic records relating to registration of foreign portfolio investors.
(2)The designated depository participant shall intimate to the Board in writing the location where such books, records and documents shall be maintained.
(3)Subject to the provisions of any other law for the time being in force, every designated depository participant shall preserve the books of accounts, physical or electronic records and documents specified in this regulation at all times.
Appointment of compliance officer.
33.(1) Every designated depository participant shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be responsible for monitoring the compliance of the Act, rules and regulations, notifications, guidelines and instructions issued by the Board or the Central Government.
(2)The compliance officer shall immediately and independently report any non-compliance observed by him to the Board.
34.Every designated depository participant shall, as and when required by the Board or the Reserve Bank of India, submit to the Board or the Reserve Bank of India, as the case may be, any information, such records or documents in relation to its activities of foreign portfolio investor.
35.(1) A designated depository participant, or any of its employees shall not render directly or indirectly any investment advice about any security in the publicly accessible media, whether real-time or otherwise, unless a disclosure of its interest including long or short position in the said security has been made, while rendering such advice.
36.The Board may suo moto or upon receipt of any information or complaint, appoint one or more persons as inspecting authority to undertake inspection of the books of account, records and documents relating to a designated depository participant for any of the following purposes, namely, -
(a)to ensure that the books of account, records including telephone records and electronic records and documents are being maintained by the designated depository participants;
(b)to ascertain whether any circumstances exist that would render the designated depository participants unfit or ineligible;
(c)to inquire into the complaints received from investors, clients, other market participants or any other person on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the designated depository participants;
(d)to ascertain whether the provisions of the securities laws and the directions or circulars issued thereunder are being complied with by the designated depository participants;
Page 21 of 29
(e)to ascertain whether the established and are being adequate; and
systems, procedures and safeguards which have been followed by the designated depository participants are
(f)to investigate suo moto into the affairs of the designated depository participants in the interest of the securities market or in the interest of investors.
37.(1) Before undertaking an inspection under regulation 36, the Board shall give not less than ten days’ notice to the designated depository participants:
Provided that where the Board is satisfied that, in the interest of the investors, no such notice should be given, it may, by an order in writing direct that such inspection be taken up without such notice.
(2)During the course of an inspection, the designated depository participants against whom the inspection is being carried out shall be bound to discharge its obligation as provided in regulation 38.
38.(1) It shall be the duty of the designated depository participants whose affairs are being inspected, and of every director, officer and employee thereof to produce to the inspecting officer such books, securities, accounts, records and other documents in its custody or control and furnish him with such statements and information relating to its activities, as the inspecting officer may require, within such reasonable period as the inspecting officer may specify.
(2)The designated depository participants shall allow the inspecting officer to have reasonable access to the premises occupied by such designated depository participant or by any other person on its behalf and also extend reasonable facility for examining any books, records, documents and computer data in the possession of the designated depository participants or such other person and also provide copies of documents or other materials which in the opinion of the inspecting officer are relevant for the purposes of the inspection.
(3)The inspecting officer, in the course of inspection, shall be entitled to examine or to record the statements of any director, officer or employee of the designated depository participants.
(4)It shall be the duty of every director, officer or employee of the designated depository participants to give to the inspecting officer all assistance in connection with the inspection, which the inspecting officer may reasonably require.
39.The inspecting officer shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection or investigation as the case may be, submit a report to the Board:
Page 22 of 29
Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, the inspecting officer may submit interim report(s).
40.The Board shall after consideration of the inspection report, take such action as it may deem fit including action under Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.
41.The Board shall have the power to appoint an auditor to inspect or investigate, as the case may be, into the books of account, records, documents, infrastructures, systems and procedures or affairs of the applicant or the designated depository participants, as the case may be:
Provided that the auditors so appointed shall have the same powers as vested in the inspecting officer under regulation 36 and the applicant or designated depository participants and its directors, officers and employees shall be under the same obligations, towards the auditor so appointed, as are mentioned in regulation 38.
43A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis.
44.In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars or issue separate circular or guidelines or framework for each category of foreign portfolio investors or designated depository participant.
45.(1) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014 shall stand repealed.
(2)Notwithstanding such repeal–
(a)anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken, including registration or approval granted, fees collected, registration or approval, suspended or cancelled, any adjudication, enquiry or investigation commenced or show-cause notice issued under the repealed regulations, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of these regulations;
(b)a foreign portfolio investor registered under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investor) Regulations, 2014 shall be re-categorised by their respective designated depository participant;
Page 24 of 29
(c)any offshore derivative instrument issued under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014 before the commencement of these regulations shall be deemed to have been issued under the corresponding provisions of these regulations;
(d)any application made to the Board under the repealed regulations, prior to such repeal, and pending before it shall be deemed to have been made under the corresponding provisions of these regulations; and
(e)the previous operation of the repealed regulations or anything duly done or suffered thereunder, any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under the repealed regulations, any penalty, incurred in respect of any violation committed against the repealed regulations, or any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty as aforesaid, shall remain unaffected as if the repealed regulations has never been repealed;
1.(1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
(2)They shall come into force on the ninetieth day from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette:
Provided that the provisions of sub-regulation (4) of regulation 23 and regulation 31A shall come into force on the date of notification of these regulations.
2.Amendment to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008.
(i)After regulation 12 and before regulation 13, the following regulation shall be inserted, namely:-
3.Amendment to Securities and Exchange Board of India(Issue and Listing of Non- Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares) Regulations, 2013.
(i)After regulation 16 and before regulation 17, the following regulations shall be inserted, namely:-
4.Amendment to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2008.
(i)In regulation 31, after sub-regulation (8), the following sub-regulation shall be inserted, namely:-
"(9) Credit to demat accounts of the allottees shall be made by the issuer within two working days from the date of allotment.”
(ii)After regulation 35 and before regulation 36, the following regulation shall be inserted, namely:-
5.Amendment to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996.
After regulation 31, the following regulation shall be inserted, namely:-
6.(1) A listed entity shall appoint a qualified company secretary as the compliance officer.
(2) The compliance officer of the listed entity shall be responsible for-
(a)ensuring conformity with the regulatory provisions applicable to the listed entity in letter and spirit.
(b)co-ordination with and reporting to the Board, recognised stock exchange(s) and depositories with respect to compliance with rules, regulations and other directives of these authorities in manner as specified from time to time.
(c)ensuring that the correct procedures have been followed that would result in the correctness, authenticity and comprehensiveness of the information, statements and reports filed by the listed entity under these regulations.
(d)monitoring email address of grievance redressal division as designated by the listed entity for the purpose of registering complaints by investors:
Provided that the requirements of this regulation shall not be applicable in the case of units issued by mutual funds which are listed on recognised stock exchange(s) but shall be governed by the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996.
7.(1) The listed entity shall appoint a share transfer agent or manage the share transfer facility in-house:
Provided that, in the case of in-house share transfer facility, as and when the total number of holders of securities of the listed entity exceeds one lakh, the listed entity shall either register with the Board as a Category II share transfer agent or appoint Registrar to an issue and share transfer agent registered with the Board.
(2)The listed entity shall ensure that all activities in relation to [***]11 share transfer facility are maintained either in house or by Registrar to an issue and share transfer agent registered with the Board.
11The words “both physical and electronic” omitted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
(Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 08.06.2018.
11
(3)The listed entity shall submit a compliance certificate to the exchange, duly signed by both the compliance officer of the listed entity and the authorised representative of the share transfer agent, wherever applicable, within one month of end of each half of the financial year, certifying compliance with the requirements of sub- regulation (2).
(4)In case of any change or appointment of a new share transfer agent, the listed entity shall enter into a tripartite agreement between the existing share transfer agent, the new share transfer agent and the listed entity, in the manner as specified by the Board from time to time:
Provided that in case the existing share transfer facility is managed in-house, the agreement referred above shall be entered into between the listed entity and the new share transfer agent.
(5)The listed entity shall intimate such appointment, referred to in sub-regulation (4), to the stock exchange(s) within seven days of entering into the agreement.
(6)The agreement referred to in sub-regulation (4) shall be placed in the subsequent meeting of the board of directors:
Provided that the requirements of this regulation shall not be applicable to the units issued by mutual funds that are listed on recognised stock exchange(s).
8.The listed entity, wherever applicable, shall co-operate with and submit correct and adequate information to the intermediaries registered with the Board such as credit rating agencies, registrar to an issue and share transfer agents, debenture trustees etc, within timelines and procedures specified under the Act, regulations and circulars issued there under:
Provided that requirements of this regulation shall not be applicable to the units issued by mutual funds listed on a recognised stock exchange(s) for which the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 shall be applicable.
9.The listed entity shall have a policy for preservation of documents, approved by its board of directors, classifying them in at least two categories as follows-
(a)documents whose preservation shall be permanent in nature ;
(b)documents with preservation period of not less than eight years after completion of
the relevant transactions:
Provided that the listed entity may keep documents specified in clauses (a) and (b) in electronic mode.
10.(1) The listed entity shall file the reports, statements, documents, filings and any other information with the recognised stock exchange(s) on the electronic platform as specified by the Board or the recognised stock exchange(s).
(2)The listed entity shall put in place infrastructure as required for compliance with sub-regulation (1).
12
11.The listed entity shall ensure that any scheme of arrangement /amalgamation /merger /reconstruction /reduction of capital etc. to be presented to any Court or Tribunal does not in any way violate, override or limit the provisions of securities laws or requirements of the stock exchange(s):
Provided that this regulation shall not be applicable for the units issued by Mutual Fund which are listed on a recognised stock exchange(s).
12.The listed entity shall use any of the electronic mode of payment facility approved by the Reserve Bank of India, in the manner specified in Schedule I, for the payment of the following:
(a)dividends;
(b)interest;
(c)redemption or repayment amounts:
Provided that where it is not possible to use electronic mode of payment, ‘payable-at-par’ warrants or cheques may be issued:
Provided further that where the amount payable as dividend exceeds one thousand and five hundred rupees, the ‘payable-at-par’ warrants or cheques shall be sent by speed post.
13.(1) The listed entity shall ensure that adequate steps are taken for expeditious redressal of investor complaints.
(2)The listed entity shall ensure that it is registered on the SCORES platform or such other electronic platform or system of the Board as shall be mandated from time to time, in order to handle investor complaints electronically in the manner specified by the Board.
(3)The listed entity shall file with the recognised stock exchange(s) on a quarterly basis, within twenty one days from the end of each quarter, a statement giving the number of investor complaints pending at the beginning of the quarter, those received during the quarter, disposed of during the quarter and those remaining unresolved at the end of the quarter.
(4)The statement as specified in sub-regulation (3) shall be placed, on quarterly basis, before the board of directors of the listed entity.
14.The listed entity shall pay all such fees or charges, as applicable, to the recognised stock exchange(s), in the manner specified by the Board or the recognised stock exchange(s).
15.(1) The provisions of this chapter shall apply to a listed entity which has listed its specified securities on any recognised stock exchange(s) either on the main board or on SME Exchange or on institutional trading platform:
(2) The compliance with the corporate governance provisions as specified in regulations 17, 12[17A,] 18, 19, 20, 21,22, 23, 24, 13[24A,] 25, 26, 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation
(2) of regulation 46 and para C , D and E of Schedule V shall not apply, in respect of -
(a)the listed entity having paid up equity share capital not exceeding rupees ten crore and net worth not exceeding rupees twenty five crore, as on the last day of the previous financial year:
Provided that where the provisions of the regulations specified in this regulation becomes applicable to a listed entity at a later date, such listed entity shall comply with the requirements those regulations within six months from the date on which the provisions became applicable to the listed entity.
(b)the listed entity which has listed its specified securities on the SME Exchange: Provided that for other listed entities which are not companies, but body corporate or
are subject to regulations under other statues, the provisions of corporate governance provisions as specified in regulation 17, 14[17A,] 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 15[24A,] 25, 26, 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 46 and para C , D and E of Schedule V shall apply to the extent that it does not violate their respective statutes and guidelines or directives issued by the relevant authorities.
[(2A) The provisions as specified in regulation 17 shall not be applicable during the insolvency resolution process period in respect of a listed entity which is undergoing corporate insolvency resolution process under the Insolvency Code:
Provided that the role and responsibilities of the board of directors as specified under regulation 17 shall be fulfilled by the interim resolution professional or resolution professional in accordance with sections 17 and 23 of the Insolvency Code.
(2B) The provisions as specified in regulations 18, 19, 20 and 21 shall not be applicable during the insolvency resolution process period in respect of a listed entity which is undergoing corporate insolvency resolution process under the Insolvency Code:
Provided that the roles and responsibilities of the committees specified in the respective regulations shall be fulfilled by the interim resolution professional or resolution professional.]16
12Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
13Inserted ibid.
14Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
15Inserted ibid.
16Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 31.05.2018.
14
16.(1) For the purpose of this chapter , unless the context otherwise requires -
(a)"control" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
(b)"independent director" means a non-executive director, other than a nominee director of the listed entity:
(i)who, in the opinion of the board of directors, is a person of integrity and possesses relevant expertise and experience;
(ii)who is or was not a promoter of the listed entity or its holding, subsidiary or associate company 17[or member of the promoter group of the listed entity];
(iii)who is not related to promoters or directors in the listed entity, its holding, subsidiary or associate company;
(iv)who, apart from receiving director's remuneration, has or had no material pecuniary relationship with the listed entity, its holding, subsidiary or associate company, or their promoters, or directors, during the two immediately preceding financial years or during the current financial year;
(v)none of whose relatives has or had pecuniary relationship or transaction with the listed entity, its holding, subsidiary or associate company, or their promoters, or directors, amounting to two per cent. or more of its gross turnover or total income or fifty lakh rupees or such higher amount as may be prescribed from time to time, whichever is lower, during the two immediately preceding financial years or during the current financial year;
(vi)who, neither himself, nor whose relative(s) —
(A)holds or has held the position of a key managerial personnel or is or has been an employee of the listed entity or its holding, subsidiary or associate company in any of the three financial years immediately preceding the financial year in which he is proposed to be appointed;
(B)is or has been an employee or proprietor or a partner, in any of the three financial years immediately preceding the financial year in which he is proposed to be appointed, of —
(1)a firm of auditors or company secretaries in practice or cost auditors of the listed entity or its holding, subsidiary or associate company; or
(2)any legal or a consulting firm that has or had any transaction with the listed entity, its holding, subsidiary or associate company amounting to ten per cent or more of the gross turnover of such firm;
(C)holds together with his relatives two per cent or more of the total voting power of the listed entity; or
(D)is a chief executive or director, by whatever name called, of any non- profit organisation that receives twenty-five per cent or more of its
17Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.10.2018.
15
receipts or corpus from the listed entity, any of its promoters, directors or its holding, subsidiary or associate company or that holds two per cent or more of the total voting power of the listed entity;
(E) is a material supplier, service provider or customer or a lessor or lessee of the listed entity;
(vii)who is not less than 21 years of age.
18 [(viii) who is not a non-independent director of another company on the board of which any non-independent director of the listed entity is an independent director:]
(c)“material subsidiary” shall mean a subsidiary, whose income or net worth exceeds 19[ten] percent of the consolidated income or net worth respectively, of the listed entity and its subsidiaries in the immediately preceding accounting year.
Explanation.- The listed entity shall formulate a policy for determining ‘material’ subsidiary.
17.(1) The composition of board of directors of the listed entity shall be as follows:
(a)board of directors shall have an optimum combination of executive and non- executive directors with at least one woman director and not less than fifty per cent. of the board of directors shall comprise of non-executive directors;
21[Provided that the Board of directors of the top 500 listed entities shall have at least one independent woman director by April 1, 2019 and the Board of directors of the top 1000 listed entities shall have at least one independent woman director by April 1, 2020;
Explanation: The top 500 and 1000 entities shall be determined on the basis of market capitalisation, as at the end of the immediate previous financial year.]
(b)where the chairperson of the board of directors is a non-executive director, at least one-third of the board of directors shall comprise of independent directors and where the listed entity does not have a regular non-executive chairperson, at least half of the board of directors shall comprise of independent directors:
18Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.10.2018.
19Substituted ibid for the word “twenty”, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
20Substituted for the words “executive directors, including all functional heads” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
21Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
16
Provided that where the regular non-executive chairperson is a promoter of the listed entity or is related to any promoter or person occupying management positions at the level of board of director or at one level below the board of directors, at least half of the board of directors of the listed entity shall consist of independent directors.
Explanation.- For the purpose of this clause, the expression “related to any promoter" shall have the following meaning:
(i)if the promoter is a listed entity, its directors other than the independent directors, its employees or its nominees shall be deemed to be related to it;
(ii)if the promoter is an unlisted entity, its directors, its employees or its nominees shall be deemed to be related to it.
22[(c) The board of directors of the top 1000 listed entities (with effect from April 1, 2019) and the top 2000 listed entities (with effect from April 1, 2020) shall comprise of not less than six directors.
Explanation: The top 1000 and 2000 entities shall be determined on the basis of market capitalisation as at the end of the immediate previous financial year.]
23[(d) where the listed company has outstanding SR equity shares, atleast half of the board of directors shall comprise of independent directors.]
24[(1A) No listed entity shall appoint a person or continue the directorship of any person as a non-executive director who has attained the age of seventy five years unless a special resolution is passed to that effect, in which case the explanatory statement annexed to the notice for such motion shall indicate the justification for appointing such a person.]
25[(1B). With effect from 26[April 1, 2022,] the top 500 listed entities shall ensure that the Chairperson of the board of such listed entity shall -
(a)be a non-executive director;
(b)not be related to the Managing Director or the Chief Executive Officer as per the definition of the term “relative” defined under the Companies Act, 2013:
Provided that this sub-regulation shall not be applicable to the listed entities which do not have any identifiable promoters as per the shareholding pattern filed with stock exchanges.
Explanation - The top 500 entities shall be determined on the basis of market capitalisation, as at the end of the immediate previous financial year.]
22Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
23Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 29.7.2019.
24Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
25Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2020.
26Substituted for “April 1, 2020” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 10.1.2020.
17
(2)The board of directors shall meet at least four times a year, with a maximum time gap of one hundred and twenty days between any two meetings.
27[(2A) The quorum for every meeting of the board of directors of the top 1000 listed entities with effect from April 1, 2019 and of the top 2000 listed entities with effect from April 1, 2020 shall be one-third of its total strength or three directors, whichever is higher, including at least one independent director.
Explanation I – For removal of doubts, it is clarified that the participation of the directors by video conferencing or by other audio-visual means shall also be counted for the purposes of such quorum.
Explanation II - The top 1000 and 2000 entities shall be determined on the basis of market capitalisation, as at the end of the immediate previous financial year.]
(3)The board of directors shall periodically review compliance reports pertaining to all laws applicable to the listed entity, prepared by the listed entity as well as steps taken by the listed entity to rectify instances of non-compliances.
(4)The board of directors of the listed entity shall satisfy itself that plans are in place for orderly succession for appointment to the board of directors and senior management.
(5)(a) The board of directors shall lay down a code of conduct for all members of board of directors and senior management of the listed entity.
(b)The code of conduct shall suitably incorporate the duties of independent directors as laid down in the Companies Act, 2013.
(6)(a) The board of directors shall recommend all fees or compensation, if any, paid to non-executive directors, including independent directors and shall require approval of shareholders in general meeting.
(b)The requirement of obtaining approval of shareholders in general meeting shall not apply to payment of sitting fees to non-executive directors, if made within the limits prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 for payment of sitting fees without approval of the Central Government.
(c)The approval of shareholders mentioned in clause (a), shall specify the limits for the maximum number of stock options that may be granted to non-executive directors, in any financial year and in aggregate.
28[(ca) The approval of shareholders by special resolution shall be obtained every year, in which the annual remuneration payable to a single non-executive director exceeds fifty per cent of the total annual remuneration payable to all non-executive directors, giving details of the remuneration thereof.]
27Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. the dates specified in the provision.
28Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
18
(d)Independent directors shall not be entitled to any stock option.
29[(e) The fees or compensation payable to executive directors who are promoters or members of the promoter group, shall be subject to the approval of the shareholders by special resolution in general meeting, if-
(i)the annual remuneration payable to such executive director exceeds rupees 5 crore or 2.5 per cent of the net profits of the listed entity, whichever is higher; or
(ii)where there is more than one such director, the aggregate annual remuneration to such directors exceeds 5 per cent of the net profits of the listed entity:
Provided that the approval of the shareholders under this provision shall be valid only till the expiry of the term of such director.
Explanation: For the purposes of this clause, net profits shall be calculated as per section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013.]
(7)The minimum information to be placed before the board of directors is specified in Part A of Schedule II.
(8)The chief executive officer and the chief financial officer shall provide the compliance certificate to the board of directors as specified in Part B of Schedule II.
(9)(a) The listed entity shall lay down procedures to inform members of board of directors about risk assessment and minimization procedures.
(b)The board of directors shall be responsible for framing, implementing and monitoring the risk management plan for the listed entity.
30[(10) The evaluation of independent directors shall be done by the entire board of directors which shall include -
(a)performance of the directors; and
(b)fulfillment of the independence criteria as specified in these regulations and their independence from the management:
Provided that in the above evaluation, the directors who are subject to evaluation shall not participate.]
17A. The directors of listed entities shall comply with the following conditions with respect to the maximum number of directorships, including any alternate directorships that can be held by them at any point of time -
(1)A person shall not be a director in more than eight listed entities with effect from April 1, 2019 and in not more than seven listed entities with effect from April 1, 2020:
Provided that a person shall not serve as an independent director in more than seven listed entities.
(2)Notwithstanding the above, any person who is serving as a whole time director / managing director in any listed entity shall serve as an independent director in not more than three listed entities.
For the purpose of this sub-regulation, the count for the number of listed entities on which a person is a director / independent director shall be only those whose equity shares are listed on a stock exchange.]
18.(1) Every listed entity shall constitute a qualified and independent audit committee in accordance with the terms of reference, subject to the following:
(a)The audit committee shall have minimum three directors as members.
(b)Two-thirds of the members of audit committee shall be independent directors
33[and in case of a listed entity having outstanding SR equity shares, the audit committee shall only comprise of independent directors].
(c)All members of audit committee shall be financially literate and at least one member shall have accounting or related financial management expertise.
Explanation (1).- For the purpose of this regulation, “financially literate” shall mean the ability to read and understand basic financial statements i.e. balance sheet, profit and loss account, and statement of cash flows.
Explanation (2).- For the purpose of this regulation , a member shall be considered to have accounting or related financial management expertise if he or she possesses experience in finance or accounting, or requisite professional certification in accounting, or any other comparable experience or background which results in the individual’s financial sophistication, including being or having been a chief executive officer, chief financial officer or other senior officer with financial oversight responsibilities.
(d)The chairperson of the audit committee shall be an independent director and he shall be present at Annual general meeting to answer shareholder queries.
(e)The Company Secretary shall act as the secretary to the audit committee.
32Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
33Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 29.7.2019.
20
(f)The audit committee at its discretion shall invite the finance director or head of the finance function, head of internal audit and a representative of the statutory auditor and any other such executives to be present at the meetings of the committee:
Provided that occasionally the audit committee may meet without the presence of any executives of the listed entity.
(2)The listed entity shall conduct the meetings of the audit committee in the following manner:
(a)The audit committee shall meet at least four times in a year and not more than one hundred and twenty days shall elapse between two meetings.
(b)The quorum for audit committee meeting shall either be two members or one third of the members of the audit committee, whichever is greater, with at least two independent directors.
(c)The audit committee shall have powers to investigate any activity within its terms of reference, seek information from any employee, obtain outside legal or other professional advice and secure attendance of outsiders with relevant expertise, if it considers necessary.
19.(1) The board of directors shall constitute the nomination and remuneration committee as follows:
(a)the committee shall comprise of at least three directors ;
(b)all directors of the committee shall be non-executive directors; and
(c)at least fifty percent of the directors shall be independent directors 34[and in case of a listed entity having outstanding SR equity shares, two thirds of the nomination and remuneration committee shall comprise of independent directors].
(2)The Chairperson of the nomination and remuneration committee shall be an independent director:
Provided that the chairperson of the listed entity, whether executive or non-executive, may be appointed as a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and shall not chair such Committee.
35[(2A) The quorum for a meeting of the nomination and remuneration committee shall be either two members or one third of the members of the committee, whichever is greater, including at least one independent director in attendance.]
(3)The Chairperson of the nomination and remuneration committee may be present at the annual general meeting, to answer the shareholders' queries; however, it shall be up to the chairperson to decide who shall answer the queries.
34Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 29.7.2019.
35Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
21
36[(3A) The nomination and remuneration committee shall meet at least once in a year.]
20.(1) The listed entity shall constitute a Stakeholders Relationship Committee to specifically look into 37[various aspects of interest] of shareholders, debenture holders and other security holders.
(2)The chairperson of this committee shall be a non-executive director.
38[(2A) At least three directors, with at least one being an independent director, shall be members of the Committee 39[and in case of a listed entity having outstanding SR equity shares, at least two thirds of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee shall comprise of independent directors].]
40[(3) The Chairperson of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee shall be present at the annual general meetings to answer queries of the security holders.]
41[(3A) The stakeholders relationship committee shall meet at least once in a year.]
(4)The role of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee shall be as specified as in Part D of the Schedule II.
21.(1) The board of directors shall constitute a Risk Management Committee.
(2)The majority of members of Risk Management Committee shall consist of members of the board of directors 42 [and in case of a listed entity having outstanding SR equity shares, at least two thirds of the Risk Management Committee shall comprise of independent directors].
(3)The Chairperson of the Risk management committee shall be a member of the board of directors and senior executives of the listed entity may be members of the committee.
43[(3A) The risk management committee shall meet at least once in a year.]
36Inserted ibid.
37Substituted for the words “the mechanism of redressal of grievances” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
38Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
39Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 29.7.2019.
40Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (3) read as follows:
“(3) The board of directors shall decide other members of this committee.”
41Inserted ibid.
42Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 29.7.2019.
43Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
22
(4)The board of directors shall define the role and responsibility of the Risk Management Committee and may delegate monitoring and reviewing of the risk management plan to the committee and such other functions as it may deem fit 44 [such function shall specifically cover cyber security].
(5)The provisions of this regulation shall be applicable to top 45 [500] listed entities, determined on the basis of market capitalisation, as at the end of the immediate previous financial year.
22.(1) The listed entity shall formulate a vigil mechanism for directors and employees to report genuine concerns.
(2)The vigil mechanism shall provide for adequate safeguards against victimization of director(s) or employee(s) or any other person who avail the mechanism and also provide for direct access to the chairperson of the audit committee in appropriate or exceptional cases.
23.(1) The listed entity shall formulate a policy on materiality of related party transactions and on dealing with related party transactions 46[including clear threshold limits duly approved by the board of directors and such policy shall be reviewed by the board of directors at least once every three years and updated accordingly]:
Explanation. - A transaction with a related party shall be considered material if the transaction(s) to be entered into individually or taken together with previous transactions during a financial year, exceeds ten percent of the annual consolidated turnover of the listed entity as per the last audited financial statements of the listed
entity.
47[(1A) Notwithstanding the above, [with effect from July 01, 2019]48 a transaction involving payments made to a related party with respect to brand usage or royalty shall be considered material if the transaction(s) to be entered into individually or taken together with previous transactions during a financial year, exceed 49 {five} percent of the annual consolidated turnover of the listed entity as per the last audited financial statements of the listed entity.]
(2)All related party transactions shall require prior approval of the audit committee.
(3)Audit committee may grant omnibus approval for related party transactions proposed to be entered into by the listed entity subject to the following conditions, namely-
(a)the audit committee shall lay down the criteria for granting the omnibus approval in line with the policy on related party transactions of the listed entity and such approval
shall be applicable in respect of transactions which are repetitive in nature;
(b) the audit committee shall satisfy itself regarding the need for such omnibus
44Inserted ibid.
45Substituted for “100” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
46Inserted ibid.
47Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
48Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019
49Substituted for the word "two" by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. June 27, 2019
23
approval and that such approval is in the interest of the listed entity;
(c)the omnibus approval shall specify:
(i)the name(s) of the related party, nature of transaction, period of transaction, maximum amount of transactions that shall be entered into,
(ii)the indicative base price / current contracted price and the formula for variation in the price if any; and
(iii)such other conditions as the audit committee may deem fit:
Provided that where the need for related party transaction cannot be foreseen and aforesaid details are not available, audit committee may grant omnibus approval for such transactions subject to their value not exceeding rupees one crore per transaction.
(d)the audit committee shall review, at least on a quarterly basis, the details of related party transactions entered into by the listed entity pursuant to each of the omnibus approvals given.
(e)Such omnibus approvals shall be valid for a period not exceeding one year and shall require fresh approvals after the expiry of one year:
(4)All material related party transactions shall require approval of the shareholders through resolution and 50 [no related party shall vote to approve] such resolutions whether the entity is a related party to the particular transaction or not:
[Provided that the requirements specified under this sub-regulation shall not apply in respect of a resolution plan approved under section 31 of the Insolvency Code, subject to
the event being disclosed to the recognized stock exchanges within one day of the resolution plan being approved;]51
(5)The provisions of sub-regulations (2), (3) and (4) shall not be applicable in the following cases:
(a)transactions entered into between two government companies;
(b)transactions entered into between a holding company and its wholly owned subsidiary whose accounts are consolidated with such holding company and placed before the
shareholders at the general meeting for approval.
Explanation. - For the purpose of clause (a), "government company(ies)" means Government company as defined in sub-section (45) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013.
(6)The provisions of this regulation shall be applicable to all prospective transactions.
(7)For the purpose of this regulation, all entities falling under the definition of related parties shall 52[not vote to approve the relevant transaction] irrespective of whether the entity is a party to the particular transaction or not.
(8)All existing material related party contracts or arrangements entered into prior to the date of notification of these regulations and which may continue beyond such date shall be placed for approval of the shareholders in the first General Meeting subsequent to notification of these regulations.
50Substituted for the words “the related parties shall abstain from voting on” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018.
51Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 31.05.2018.
52Substituted for the words “abstain from voting” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
24. 54[(1) At least one independent director on the board of directors of the listed entity shall be a director on the board of directors of an unlisted material subsidiary, whether incorporated in India or not.
Explanation - For the purposes of this provision, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in regulation 16, the term “material subsidiary” shall mean a subsidiary, whose income or net worth exceeds twenty percent of the consolidated income or net worth respectively, of the listed entity and its subsidiaries in the immediately preceding accounting year.]
(2)The audit committee of the listed entity shall also review the financial statements, in particular, the investments made by the unlisted subsidiary.
(3)The minutes of the meetings of the board of directors of the unlisted subsidiary shall be placed at the meeting of the board of directors of the listed entity.
(4)The management of the unlisted subsidiary shall periodically bring to the notice of the board of directors of the listed entity, a statement of all significant transactions and arrangements entered into by the unlisted subsidiary.
Explanation.- For the purpose of this regulation, the term “significant transaction or arrangement” shall mean any individual transaction or arrangement that exceeds or is likely to exceed ten percent of the total revenues or total expenses or total assets or total liabilities, as the case may be, of the unlisted 55 [***] subsidiary for the immediately preceding accounting year.
(5)A listed entity shall not dispose of shares in its material subsidiary resulting in reduction of its shareholding (either on its own or together with other subsidiaries) to less than fifty percent or cease the exercise of control over the subsidiary without passing a special resolution in its General Meeting except in cases where such divestment is made under a scheme of arrangement duly approved by a Court/Tribunal[, or under a resolution plan
duly approved under section 31 of the Insolvency Code and such an event is disclosed to the recognized stock exchanges within one day of the resolution plan being approved]56.
53Inserted ibid, w.e.f the half year ending March 31, 2019.
54Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as follows:
“(1) At least one independent director on the board of directors of the listed entity shall be a director on the board of directors of an unlisted material subsidiary, incorporated in India.”
55Word “material” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
56Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 31.05.2018.
25
(6)Selling, disposing and leasing of assets amounting to more than twenty percent of the assets of the material subsidiary on an aggregate basis during a financial year shall require prior approval of shareholders by way of special resolution, unless the sale/disposal/lease is made under a scheme of arrangement duly approved by a Court/Tribunal[, or under a resolution plan duly approved under section 31 of the Insolvency Code and such an event is disclosed to the recognized stock exchanges within one day of the resolution plan being approved]57.
(7)Where a listed entity has a listed subsidiary, which is itself a holding company, the provisions of this regulation shall apply to the listed subsidiary in so far as its subsidiaries are concerned.
24A. Every listed entity and its material unlisted subsidiaries incorporated in India shall undertake secretarial audit and shall annex with its annual report, a secretarial audit report, given by a company secretary in practice, in such form as may be specified with effect from the year ended March 31, 2019.]
25. 59 [(1) No person shall be appointed or continue as an alternate director for an independent director of a listed entity with effect from October 1, 2018.]
(2)The maximum tenure of independent directors shall be in accordance with the Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder, in this regard, from time to time.
(3)The independent directors of the listed entity shall hold at least one meeting in a year, without the presence of non-independent directors and members of the management and all the independent directors shall strive to be present at such meeting.
(4)The independent directors in the meeting referred in sub-regulation (3) shall, inter alia-
(a)review the performance of non-independent directors and the board of directors as a whole;
(b)review the performance of the chairperson of the listed entity, taking into account the views of executive directors and non-executive directors;
(c)assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the management of the listed entity and the board of directors that is necessary for the board of directors to effectively and reasonably perform their duties.
(5)An independent director shall be held liable, only in respect of such acts of omission or commission by the listed entity which had occurred with his knowledge, attributable
57Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 31.05.2018.
58Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. the date specified in the provision.
59Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. the date specified in the provision. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as follows:
“(1) A person shall not serve as an independent director in more than seven listed entities:
Provided that any person who is serving as a whole time director in any listed entity shall serve as an independent director in not more than three listed entities.”
26
through processes of board of directors, and with his consent or connivance or where he had not acted diligently with respect to the provisions contained in these regulations.
(6)An independent director who resigns or is removed from the board of directors of the listed entity shall be replaced by a new independent director by listed entity at the earliest but not later than the immediate next meeting of the board of directors or three months from the date of such vacancy, whichever is later:
Provided that where the listed entity fulfils the requirement of independent directors in its board of directors without filling the vacancy created by such resignation or removal, the requirement of replacement by a new independent director shall not apply.
(7)The listed entity shall familiarise the independent directors through various programmes about the listed entity, including the following:
(a)nature of the industry in which the listed entity operates;
(b)business model of the listed entity;
(c)roles, rights, responsibilities of independent directors; and
(d)any other relevant information.
60[(8) Every independent director shall, at the first meeting of the board in which he participates as a director and thereafter at the first meeting of the board in every financial year or whenever there is any change in the circumstances which may affect his status as an independent director, submit a declaration that he meets the criteria of independence as provided in clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 16 and that he is not aware of any circumstance or situation, which exist or may be reasonably anticipated, that could impair or impact his ability to discharge his duties with an objective independent judgment and without any external influence.
(9)The board of directors of the listed entity shall take on record the declaration and confirmation submitted by the independent director under sub-regulation (8) after undertaking due assessment of the veracity of the same.
(10)With effect from October 1, 2018, the top 500 listed entities by market capitalization calculated as on March 31 of the preceding financial year, shall undertake Directors and
Officers insurance (‘D and O insurance’) for all their independent directors of such quantum and for such risks as may be determined by its board of directors.]
26.(1) A director shall not be a member in more than ten committees or act as chairperson of more than five committees across all listed entities in which he is a director which shall be determined as follows:
(a)the limit of the committees on which a director may serve in all public limited companies, whether listed or not, shall be included and all other companies including private limited companies, foreign companies and companies under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 shall be excluded;
60Inserted ibid w.e.f. 1.4.2019 or the date specified in the provisions.
61Substituted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 04.01.2017. Prior to substitution, the title read as follows-
“Obligations with respect to directors and senior management”
27
(b)for the purpose of determination of limit, chairpersonship and membership of the audit committee and the Stakeholders' Relationship Committee alone shall be considered.
(2)Every director shall inform the listed entity about the committee positions he or she occupies in other listed entities and notify changes as and when they take place.
(3)All members of the board of directors and senior management personnel shall affirm compliance with the code of conduct of board of directors and senior management on an annual basis.
(4)Non-executive directors shall disclose their shareholding, held either by them or on a beneficial basis for any other persons in the listed entity in which they are proposed to be appointed as directors, in the notice to the general meeting called for appointment of such director.
(5)Senior management shall make disclosures to the board of directors relating to all material, financial and commercial transactions, where they have personal interest that may have a potential conflict with the interest of the listed entity at large.
Explanation.- For the purpose of this sub-regulation, conflict of interest relates to dealing in the shares of listed entity, commercial dealings with bodies, which have shareholding of management and their relatives etc.
62[(6) No employee including key managerial personnel or director or promoter of a listed entity shall enter into any agreement for himself or on behalf of any other person, with any shareholder or any other third party with regard to compensation or profit sharing in connection with dealings in the securities of such listed entity, unless prior approval for the same has been obtained from the Board of Directors as well as public shareholders by way of an ordinary resolution:
Provided that such agreement, if any, whether subsisting or expired, entered during the preceding three years from the date of coming into force of this sub-regulation, shall be disclosed to the stock exchanges for public dissemination:
Provided further that subsisting agreement, if any, as on the date of coming into force of this sub-regulation shall be placed for approval before the Board of Directors in the forthcoming Board meeting:
Provided further that if the Board of Directors approve such agreement, the same shall be placed before the public shareholders for approval by way of an ordinary resolution in the forthcoming general meeting:
Provided further that all interested persons involved in the transaction covered under the agreement shall abstain from voting in the general meeting.
Explanation - For the purposes of this sub-regulation, ‘interested person’ shall mean any person holding voting rights in the listed entity and who is in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, interested in an agreement or proposed agreement, entered into or to
62Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 04.01.2017.
28
27.(1) The listed entity may, at its discretion, comply with requirements as specified in Part E of Schedule II.
(2)(a) The listed entity shall submit a quarterly compliance report on corporate governance in the format as specified by the Board from time to time to the recognised stock exchange(s) within fifteen days from close of the quarter.
(b)Details of all material transactions with related parties shall be disclosed along with the report mentioned in clause (a) of sub-regulation (2).
(c)The report mentioned in clause (a) of sub-regulation (2) shall be signed either by the compliance officer or the chief executive officer of the listed entity.
28.(1) The listed entity, before issuing securities, shall obtain an ‘in-principle’ approval from recognised stock exchange(s) in the following manner:
(a)where the securities are listed only on recognised stock exchange(s) having nationwide trading terminals, from all such stock exchange(s);
(b)where the securities are not listed on any recognised stock exchange having nationwide trading terminals, from all the stock exchange(s) in which the securities of the issuer are proposed to be listed;
(c)where the securities are listed on recognised stock exchange(s) having nationwide trading terminals as well as on the recognised stock exchange(s) not having nationwide trading terminals, from all recognised stock exchange(s) having nationwide trading terminals:
29.(1) The listed entity shall give prior intimation to stock exchange about the meeting of the board of directors in which any of the following proposals is due to be considered:
(a)financial results viz. quarterly, half yearly, or annual, as the case may be;
(b)proposal for buyback of securities;
(c)proposal for voluntary delisting by the listed entity from the stock exchange(s);
29
(d)fund raising by way of further public offer, rights issue, American Depository Receipts/Global Depository Receipts/Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds, qualified institutions placement, debt issue, preferential issue or any other method and for determination of issue price:
Provided that intimation shall also be given in case of any annual general meeting or extraordinary general meeting or postal ballot that is proposed to be held for obtaining shareholder approval for further fund raising indicating type of issuance.
(e)declaration/ recommendation of dividend, issue of convertible securities including convertible debentures or of debentures carrying a right to subscribe to equity shares or the passing over of dividend.
(f)the proposal for declaration of bonus securities where such proposal is communicated to the board of directors of the listed entity as part of the agenda papers:
63[***]
(2)The intimation required under sub-regulation (1), shall be given at least two working days in advance, excluding the date of the intimation and date of the meeting: Provided that intimation regarding item specified in clause (a) of sub-regulation (1), to be discussed at the meeting of board of directors shall be given at least five days in advance (excluding the date of the intimation and date of the meeting), and such intimation shall include the date of such meeting of board of directors.
(3)The listed entity shall give intimation to the stock exchange(s) at least eleven working days before any of the following proposal is placed before the board of directors -
(a)any alteration in the form or nature of any of its securities that are listed on the stock exchange or in the rights or privileges of the holders thereof.
(b)any alteration in the date on which, the interest on debentures or bonds, or the redemption amount of redeemable shares or of debentures or bonds, shall be payable.
30.(1) Every listed entity shall make disclosures of any events or information which, in the opinion of the board of directors of the listed company, is material.
(2) Events specified in Para A of Part A of Schedule III are deemed to be material events and listed entity shall make disclosure of such events.
63Omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.10.2018. Prior to the omission, the proviso read as follows:
“Provided that in case the declaration of bonus by the listed entity is not on the agenda of the meeting of board of directors, prior intimation is not required to be given to the stock exchange(s).”
30
(3)The listed entity shall make disclosure of events specified in Para B of Part A of Schedule III, based on application of the guidelines for materiality, as specified in sub-regulation (4).
(4)(i) The listed entity shall consider the following criteria for determination of materiality of events/ information:
(a)the omission of an event or information, which is likely to result in discontinuity or alteration of event or information already available publicly; or
(b)the omission of an event or information is likely to result in significant market reaction if the said omission came to light at a later date;
(c)In case where the criteria specified in sub-clauses (a) and (b) are not applicable, an event/information may be treated as being material if in the opinion of the board of directors of listed entity, the event / information is considered material.
(ii)The listed entity shall frame a policy for determination of materiality, based on criteria specified in this sub-regulation, duly approved by its board of directors, which shall be disclosed on its website.
(5)The board of directors of the listed entity shall authorize one or more Key Managerial Personnel for the purpose of determining materiality of an event or information and for the purpose of making disclosures to stock exchange(s) under this regulation and the contact details of such personnel shall be also disclosed to the stock exchange(s) and as well as on the listed entity's website.
(6)The listed entity shall first disclose to stock exchange(s) of all events, as specified in Part A of Schedule III, or information as soon as reasonably possible and not later than twenty four hours from the occurrence of event or information:
Provided that in case the disclosure is made after twenty four hours of occurrence of the event or information, the listed entity shall, along with such disclosures provide explanation for delay:
Provided further that disclosure with respect to events specified in sub-para 4 of Para A of Part A of Schedule III shall be made within thirty minutes of the conclusion of the board meeting.
(7)The listed entity shall, with respect to disclosures referred to in this regulation, make disclosures updating material developments on a regular basis, till such time the event is resolved/closed, with relevant explanations.
(8)The listed entity shall disclose on its website all such events or information which has been disclosed to stock exchange(s) under this regulation , and such disclosures shall be hosted on the website of the listed entity for a minimum period of five years and thereafter as per the archival policy of the listed entity, as disclosed on its website.
(9)The listed entity shall disclose all events or information with respect to subsidiaries which are material for the listed entity.
31
(10)The listed entity shall provide specific and adequate reply to all queries raised by stock exchange(s) with respect to any events or information:
Provided that the stock exchange(s) shall disseminate information and clarification as soon as reasonably practicable.
31.(1) The listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange(s) a statement showing holding of securities and shareholding pattern separately for each class of securities, in the format specified by the Board from time to time within the following timelines -
(a)one day prior to listing of its securities on the stock exchange(s);
(b)on a quarterly basis, within twenty one days from the end of each quarter; and,
(c)within ten days of any capital restructuring of the listed entity resulting in a
change exceeding two per cent of the total paid-up share capital:
Provided that in case of listed entities which have listed their specified securities on SME Exchange, the above statements shall be submitted on a half yearly basis within twenty one days from the end of each half year.
(2)The listed entity shall ensure that hundred percent of shareholding of promoter(s) and promoter group is in dematerialized form and the same is maintained on a continuous basis in the manner as specified by the Board.
(3)The listed entity shall comply with circulars or directions issued by the Board from time to time with respect to maintenance of shareholding in dematerialized form.
64[(4) All entities falling under promoter and promoter group shall be disclosed separately in the shareholding pattern appearing on the website of all stock exchanges having nationwide trading terminals where the specified securities of the entity are listed, in accordance with the formats specified by the Board.]
65[Conditions for re-classification of any person as promoter / public
64Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 16.11.2018
31A. The listed entity, which intends to list units of its scheme on the recognised stock exchange(s), shall obtain ‘in-principle’ approval from recognised stock exchange(s) in the manner as specified by the recognised stock exchange(s) from time to time.
32.(1) The listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange the following statement(s) on a quarterly basis for public issue, rights issue, preferential issue etc. ,-
(a)indicating deviations, if any, in the use of proceeds from the objects stated in the offer document or explanatory statement to the notice for the general meeting, as
applicable;
(b)indicating category wise variation (capital expenditure, sales and marketing, working capital etc.) between projected utilisation of funds made by it in its offer document or explanatory statement to the notice for the general meeting, as applicable and the actual utilisation of funds.
(2)The statement(s) specified in sub-regulation (1), shall be continued to be given till such time the issue proceeds have been fully utilised or the purpose for which these proceeds were raised has been achieved.
(3)The statement(s) specified in sub-regulation (1), shall be placed before the audit committee for review and after such review, shall be submitted to the stock exchange(s).
(4)The listed entity shall furnish an explanation for the variation specified in sub-regulation (1), in the directors’ report in the annual report.
(5)The listed entity shall prepare an annual statement of funds utilized for purposes other than those stated in the offer document/prospectus/notice, certified by the statutory auditors of the listed entity, and place it before the audit committee till such time the full money raised through the issue has been fully utilized.
(6)Where the listed entity has appointed a monitoring agency to monitor utilisation of proceeds of a public or rights issue, the listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange(s) any comments or report received from the monitoring agency.
36
(7)Where the listed entity has appointed a monitoring agency to monitor the utilisation of proceeds of a public or rights issue, the monitoring report of such agency shall be placed before the audit committee on an annual basis, promptly upon its receipt.
Explanation.- For the purpose of this sub-regulation, “monitoring agency” shall mean the monitoring agency specified in regulation 16 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009.
66[(7A) Where an entity has raised funds through preferential allotment or qualified institutions placement, the listed entity shall disclose every year, the utilization of such funds during that year in its Annual Report until such funds are fully utilized.]
33.(1) While preparing financial results, the listed entity shall comply with the following:
(a)The financial results shall be prepared on the basis of accrual accounting policy and shall be in accordance with uniform accounting practices adopted for all the periods.
(b)The quarterly and year to date results shall be prepared in accordance with the recognition and measurement principles laid down in Accounting Standard 25 or Indian Accounting Standard 31 (AS 25/ Ind AS 34 – Interim Financial Reporting), as applicable, specified in Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with relevant rules framed thereunder or as specified by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, whichever is applicable.
(c)The standalone financial results and consolidated financial results shall be
prepared as per Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India:
Provided that in addition to the above, the listed entity may also submit the financial results, as per the International Financial Reporting Standards notified by the International Accounting Standards Board.
(d)The listed entity shall ensure that the limited review or audit reports submitted to the stock exchange(s) on a quarterly or annual basis are to be given only by an auditor who has subjected himself to the peer review process of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and holds a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
(e)The listed entity shall make the disclosures specified in Part A of Schedule IV.
(2)The approval and authentication of the financial results shall be done by listed entity in the following manner:
66Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
37
(a)The quarterly financial results submitted shall be approved by the board of directors:
Provided that while placing the financial results before the board of directors, the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of the listed entity shall certify that the financial results do not contain any false or misleading statement or figures and do not omit any material fact which may make the statements or figures contained therein misleading.
(b)The financial results submitted to the stock exchange shall be signed by the chairperson or managing director, or a whole time director or in the absence of all of them; it shall be signed by any other director of the listed entity who is duly authorized by the board of directors to sign the financial results.
(c)The limited review report shall be placed before the board of directors, at its meeting which approves the financial results, before being submitted to the stock exchange(s).
(d)The annual audited financial results shall be approved by the board of directors of the listed entity and shall be signed in the manner specified in clause (b) of sub- regulation (2).
(3)The listed entity shall submit the financial results in the following manner:
(a)The listed entity shall submit quarterly and year-to-date standalone financial results to the stock exchange within forty-five days of end of each quarter, other than the last quarter.
(b)In case the listed entity has subsidiaries, in addition to the requirement at clause
(a)of sub-regulation (3), the listed entity 67[shall] also submit quarterly/year-to- date consolidated financial results 68[.]
69[***]
(c)The quarterly and year-to-date financial results may be either audited or unaudited subject to the following:
(i)In case the listed entity opts to submit unaudited financial results, they shall be subject to limited review by the statutory auditors of the listed entity and shall be accompanied by the limited review report.
67Substituted for the word “may” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
68Substituted ibid for the words “subject to following:”
69Sub-clauses (i) and (ii) omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019. Prior to the omission, the said sub-clauses read as follows:
“(i) the listed entity shall intimate to the stock exchange, whether or not listed entity opts to additionally submit quarterly/year-to-date consolidated financial results in the first quarter of the financial year and this option shall not be changed during the financial year.
Provided that this option shall also be applicable to listed entity that is required to prepare consolidated financial results for the first time at the end of a financial year in respect of the quarter during the financial year in which the listed entity first acquires the subsidiary.
(ii) in case the listed entity changes its option in any subsequent year, it shall furnish comparable figures for the previous year in accordance with the option exercised for the current financial year.”
38
Provided that in case of public sector undertakings this limited review may be undertaken by any practicing Chartered Accountant.
(ii)In case the listed entity opts to submit audited financial results, they shall be accompanied by the audit report.
(d)The listed entity shall submit [annual]70 audited standalone financial results for the financial year, within sixty days from the end of the financial year along with the audit report and [Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications (applicable only]71 for audit report with modified opinion):
Provided that if the listed entity has subsidiaries, it shall, while submitting annual audited standalone financial results also submit annual audited consolidated
financial results along with the audit report and [Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications (applicable only]72 for audit report with modified opinion)[:]73
[Provided further that, in case of audit reports with unmodified opinion(s), the listed entity shall furnish a declaration to that effect to the Stock Exchange(s) while publishing the annual audited financial results.]74
(e)The listed entity shall also submit the audited 75[or limited reviewed] financial results in respect of the last quarter along-with the results for the entire financial year, with a note stating that the figures of last quarter are the balancing figures between audited figures in respect of the full financial year and the published year- to-date figures upto the third quarter of the current financial year.
(f)The listed entity shall also submit as part of its standalone or consolidated financial results for the half year, by way of a note, a statement of assets and liabilities as at the end of the half-year.
76[(g) The listed entity shall also submit as part of its standalone and consolidated financial results for the half year, by way of a note, statement of cash flows for the half-year.
(h)The listed entity shall ensure that, for the purposes of quarterly consolidated financial results, at least eighty percent of each of the consolidated revenue, assets and profits, respectively, shall have been subject to audit or in case of unaudited results, subjected to limited review.
70Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016.
71Substituted for ‘either Form A (for audit report with unmodified opinion) or Form B (’ by SEBI (Listing
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016
72Substituted for ‘either Form A (for audit report with unmodified opinion) or Form B (’ by SEBI (Listing
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016
73Substituted for the symbol ‘.’ by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016.
74Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016.
75Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
76Inserted ibid.
39
(i)The listed entity shall disclose, in the results for the last quarter in the financial year, by way of a note, the aggregate effect of material adjustments made in the results of that quarter which pertain to earlier periods.]
(4)The applicable formats of the financial results and [Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications (for audit report with modified opinion)]77 shall be in the manner as specified by the Board [***]78.
(5)For the purpose of this regulation, any reference to “quarterly/quarter” in case of listed entity which has listed their specified securities on SME Exchange shall be respectively read as “half yearly/half year” and the requirement of submitting ‘year-to-date’ financial results shall not be applicable for a listed entity which has listed their specified securities on SME Exchange.
34. 83[(1) The listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange and publish on its website-
(a)a copy of the annual report sent to the shareholders along with the notice of the annual general meeting not later than the day of commencement of dispatch to its shareholders;
77Substituted for ‘Form A (for audit report with unmodified opinion) & Form B (for audit report with modified opinion)’ by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016
78The words ‘from time to time’ omitted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016.
79Substituted for ‘Form B’ by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016
80The words ‘and Qualified Audit Report Review Committee in manner as specified in Schedule VIII’ omitted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016.
81Omitted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016. Prior to omission, sub regulation (7) read as follows:
‘(7) The listed entity shall on the direction issued by the Board, carry out the necessary steps, for rectification of modified opinion and/or submission of revised pro-forma financial results, in the manner specified in Schedule
VIII.’
82Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
83Substituted ibid, and applicable for Annual report filed for the year ended March 31, 2019 and thereafter. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as follows:
“(1) The listed entity shall submit the annual report to the stock exchange within twenty one working days of it being approved and adopted in the annual general meeting as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.”
40
(b)in the event of any changes to the annual report, the revised copy along with the details of and explanation for the changes shall be sent not later than 48 hours after the annual general meeting.]
(2)The annual report shall contain the following:
(a)audited financial statements i.e. balance sheets, profit and loss accounts etc [,and
Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications as stipulated in regulation 33(3)(d), if applicable;]84
(b)consolidated financial statements audited by its statutory auditors;
(c)cash flow statement presented only under the indirect method as prescribed in Accounting Standard-3 or Indian Accounting Standard 7, as applicable, specified in Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with relevant rules framed thereunder or as specified by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, whichever is applicable;
(d)directors report;
(e)management discussion and analysis report - either as a part of directors report or addition thereto;
(f)for the top 85 [one thousand] listed entities based on market capitalization (calculated as on March 31 of every financial year), business responsibility report describing the initiatives taken by them from an environmental, social and governance perspective, in the format as specified by the Board from time to time:
Provided that listed entities other than top 86 [one thousand] listed companies based on market capitalization and listed entities which have listed their specified securities on SME Exchange, may include these business responsibility reports on a voluntary basis in the format as specified.
(3)The annual report shall contain any other disclosures specified in Companies Act, 2013 along with other requirements as specified in Schedule V of these regulations.
35.The listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange(s) an Annual Information Memorandum in the manner specified by the Board from time to time.
36.(1) The listed entity shall send the annual report in the following manner to the shareholders:
(a)Soft copies of full annual report to all those shareholder(s) who have registered their email address(es) 87 [***] 88 [either with the listed entity or with any depository];
84Substituted for the symbol ‘;’ by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016.
85Substituted for “five hundred” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 26.12.2019.
86Substituted for “five hundred” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 26.12.2019.
87Words “for the purpose” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
88Inserted ibid, applicable for Annual report filed for the year ended March 31, 2019 and thereafter.
41
(b)Hard copy of statement containing the salient features of all the documents, as prescribed in Section 136 of Companies Act, 2013 or rules made thereunder to those shareholder(s) who have not so registered;
(c)Hard copies of full annual reports to those shareholders, who request for the same.
(2)The listed entity shall send annual report referred to in sub-regulation (1), to the holders of securities, not less than twenty-one days before the annual general meeting.
(3)In case of the appointment of a new director or re-appointment of a director the shareholders must be provided with the following information:
(a)a brief resume of the director;
(b)nature of his expertise in specific functional areas;
(c)disclosure of relationships between directors inter-se;
(d)names of listed entities in which the person also holds the directorship and the membership of Committees of the board; and
(e)shareholding of non-executive directors.
89[(4) The disclosures made by the listed entity with immediate effect from date of notification of these amendments-
(a) to the stock exchanges shall be in XBRL format in accordance with the guidelines specified by the stock exchanges from time to time; and
(b) to the stock exchanges and on its website, shall be in a format that allows users to find relevant information easily through a searching tool:
Provided that the requirement to make disclosures in searchable formats shall not apply in case there is a statutory requirement to make such disclosures in formats which may not be searchable, such as copies of scanned documents.
(5)The notice being sent to shareholders for an annual general meeting, where the statutory auditor(s) is/are proposed to be appointed/re-appointed shall include the following disclosures as a part of the explanatory statement to the notice:
(a)Proposed fees payable to the statutory auditor(s) along with terms of appointment and in case of a new auditor, any material change in the fee payable to such auditor from that paid to the outgoing auditor along with the rationale for such change;
(b)Basis of recommendation for appointment including the details in relation to and credentials of the statutory auditor(s) proposed to be appointed.]
37.(1)Without prejudice to provisions of regulation 11, the listed entity desirous of undertaking a scheme of arrangement or involved in a scheme of arrangement, shall file the draft scheme of arrangement, proposed to be filed before any Court or Tribunal
under sections 391-394 and 101 of the Companies Act, 1956 or under Sections 230- 234 and Section 66 of Companies Act, 2013, whichever applicable, 90[along with a
89Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
90Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 6.3.2017.
42
non-refundable fee as specified in Schedule XI,] with the stock exchange(s) for obtaining Observation Letter or No-objection letter, before filing such scheme with any Court or Tribunal, in terms of requirements specified by the Board or stock exchange(s) from time to time.
(2)The listed entity shall not file any scheme of arrangement under sections 391-394 and 101 of the Companies Act, 1956 or under Sections 230-234 and Section 66 of Companies Act, 2013 ,whichever applicable, with any Court or Tribunal unless it has obtained observation letter or No-objection letter from the stock exchange(s).
(3)The listed entity shall place the Observation letter or No-objection letter of the stock exchange(s) before the Court or Tribunal at the time of seeking approval of the scheme of arrangement:
Provided that the validity of the ‘Observation Letter’ or No-objection letter of stock exchanges shall be six months from the date of issuance, within which the draft scheme of arrangement shall be submitted to the Court or Tribunal.
(4)The listed entity shall ensure compliance with the other requirements as may be prescribed by the Board from time to time.
(5)Upon sanction of the Scheme by the Court or Tribunal, the listed entity shall submit the documents, to the stock exchange(s), as prescribed by the Board and/or stock exchange(s) from time to time.
91[(6) Nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to draft schemes which solely provide for merger of a wholly owned subsidiary with its holding company:
Provided that such draft schemes shall be filed with the stock exchanges for the purpose of disclosures.]
[(7) The requirements as specified under this regulation and under regulation 94 of these regulations shall not apply to a restructuring proposal approved as part of a resolution plan by the Tribunal under section 31 of the Insolvency Code, subject to the details being disclosed to the recognized stock exchanges within one day of the resolution plan being approved.]92
38.The listed entity shall comply with the minimum public shareholding requirements specified in Rule 19(2) and Rule 19A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules,
1957 in the manner as specified by the Board from time to time:
Provided that provisions of this regulation shall not apply to entities listed on institutional trading platform without making a public issue.
39.(1) The listed entity shall comply with Rule 19(3) of Securities Contract (Regulations) Rules, 1957 in respect of Letter/Advices of Allotment, Acceptance or Rights, transfers,
91Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.02.2017.
92Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 31.05.2018.
43
subdivision, consolidation, renewal, exchanges, issuance of duplicates thereof or any other purpose.
(2)The listed entity shall issue certificates or receipts or advices, as applicable, of subdivision, split, consolidation, renewal, exchanges, endorsements, issuance of duplicates thereof or issuance of new certificates or receipts or advices, as applicable, in cases of loss or old decrepit or worn out certificates or receipts or advices, as applicable within a period of thirty days from the date of such lodgement.
(3)The listed entity shall submit information regarding loss of share certificates and issue of the duplicate certificates, to the stock exchange within two days of its getting information.
(4)The listed entity shall comply with the procedural requirements specified in Schedule VI while dealing with securities issued pursuant to the public issue or any other issue, physical or otherwise, which remain unclaimed and/or are lying in the escrow account, as applicable.
40.(1) Save as otherwise specified in provisions of securities laws or Companies Act,
2013 and rules made thereunder, the listed entity shall also comply with the requirements as specified in this regulation for effecting transfer of securities [:]93 [Provided that, except in case of transmission or transposition of securities, requests for effecting transfer of securities shall not be processed unless the securities are held in the dematerialized form with a depository.]94
(2)The board of directors of a listed entity may delegate the power of transfer of securities to a committee or to compliance officer or to the registrar to an issue and/or share transfer agent(s):
Provided that the board of directors and/or the delegated authority shall attend to the formalities pertaining to transfer of securities at least once in a fortnight:
Provided further that the delegated authority shall report on transfer of securities to the board of directors in each meeting.
(3)On receipt of proper documentation, the listed entity shall register transfers of its securities in the name of the transferee(s) and issue certificates or receipts or advices, as applicable, of transfers; or issue any valid objection or intimation to the transferee or transferor, as the case may be, within a period of fifteen days from the date of such receipt of request for transfer:
Provided that the listed entity shall ensure that transmission requests are processed for securities held in dematerialized mode and physical mode within seven days and twenty one days respectively, after receipt of the specified documents:
Provided further that proper verifiable dated records of all correspondence with the investor shall be maintained by the listed entity.
93Symbol ‘.’substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment)
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 08.06.2018.
94Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 08.06.2018.
44
(4)The listed entity shall not register transfer when any statutory prohibition or any attachment or prohibitory order of a competent authority restrains it from transferring the securities f r om the name of the transferor(s).
(5)The listed entity shall not register the transfer of its securities in the name of the transferee(s) when the transferor(s) objects to the transfer:
Provided that the transferor serves on the listed entity, within sixty working days of raising the objection, a prohibitory order of a Court of competent jurisdiction.
(6)The listed entity shall not decline to, register or acknowledge any transfer of shares, on the ground of the transferor(s) being either alone or jointly with any other person or persons indebted to the listed entity on any account whatsoever.
(7)The listed entity shall comply with all procedural requirements as specified in Schedule VII with respect to transfer of securities.
(8)In case the listed entity has not effected transfer of securities within fifteen days or where the listed entity has failed to communicate to the transferee(s) any valid objection to the transfer, within the stipulated time period of fifteen days, the listed entity shall compensate the aggrieved party for the opportunity losses caused during the period of the delay:
Provided that during the intervening period on account of delay in transfer above, the listed entity shall provide all benefits, which have accrued, to the holder of securities in terms of provisions of Section 126 of Companies Act, 2013, and Section 27 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956:
Provided further that in case of any claim, difference or dispute under this sub-regulation the same shall be referred to and decided by arbitration as provided in the bye-laws and/or regulations of the stock exchange(s).
(9)The listed entity shall ensure that the share transfer agent and/or the in-house share transfer facility, as the case may be, produces a certificate from a practicing company secretary within one month of the end of each half of the financial year, certifying that all certificates have been issued within thirty days of the date of lodgement for transfer, sub- division, consolidation, renewal, exchange or endorsement of calls/allotment monies.
(10)The listed entity shall ensure that certificate mentioned at sub-regulation (9), shall be filed with the stock exchange(s) simultaneously.
(11)In addition to transfer of securities, the provisions of this regulation shall also apply to the following :
(a)deletion of name of the deceased holder(s) of securities, where the securities are held in the name of two or more holders of securities ;
(b)transmission of securities to the legal heir(s), where deceased holder of securities was the sole holder of securities;
(c)transposition of securities, when there is a change in the order of names in which physical securities are held jointly in the names of two or more holders of securities.
Other provisions relating to securities.
41.(1) The listed entity shall not exercise a lien on its fully paid shares and that in respect of partly paid shares it shall not exercise any lien except in respect of moneys called or payable at a fixed time in respect of such shares.
(2)The listed entity shall, in case of any amount to be paid in advance of calls on any shares stipulate that such amount may carry interest but shall not in respect thereof confer a right to dividend or to participate in profits.
95[(3) The listed entity shall not issue shares in any manner that may confer on any person; superior or inferior rights as to dividend vis-à-vis the rights on equity shares that are already listed or inferior voting rights vis-à-vis the rights on equity shares that are already listed:
Provided that, a listed entity having SR equity shares issued to its promoters/ founders, may issue SR equity shares to its SR shareholders only through a bonus, split or rights issue in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 and the Companies Act, 2013.]
(4)The listed entity shall, issue or offer in the first instance all shares (including forfeited shares), securities, rights, privileges and benefits to subscribe pro rata basis , to the equity shareholders of the listed entity, unless the shareholders in the general meeting decide otherwise.
(5)Unless the terms of issue otherwise provide, the listed entity shall not select any of its listed securities for redemption otherwise than on pro-rata basis or by lot.
96[Other provisions relating to outstanding SR equity shares.
41A (1) The SR equity shares shall be treated at par with the ordinary equity shares in every respect, including dividends, except in the case of voting on resolutions.
(2)The total voting rights of SR shareholders (including ordinary shares) in the issuer upon listing, pursuant to an initial public offer, shall not at any point of time exceed seventy four per cent.
(3)The SR equity shares shall be treated as ordinary equity shares in terms of voting rights (i.e. one SR share shall only have one vote) in the following circumstances -
i.appointment or removal of independent directors and/or auditor;
ii.where a promoter is willingly transferring control to another entity;
iii.related party transactions in terms of these regulations involving an SR shareholder;
iv.voluntary winding up of the listed entity;
v.changes to the Articles of Association or Memorandum of Association of the listed entity, except any change affecting the SR equity share;
vi.initiation of a voluntary resolution process under the Insolvency Code;
vii.utilization of funds for purposes other than business;
95 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 29.7.2019. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (3) read as follows,-
“(3) The listed entity shall not issue shares in any manner which may confer on any person, superior rights as to voting or dividend vis-à-vis the rights on equity shares that are already listed.”
96Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 29.7.2019.
46
viii.substantial value transaction based on materiality threshold as specified under these regulations;
ix.passing of special resolution in respect of delisting or buy-back of shares; and
x.other circumstances or subject matter as may be specified by the Board, from time to time.
(4)The SR equity shares shall be converted into equity shares having voting rights same as that of ordinary shares on the fifth anniversary of listing of ordinary shares of the listed entity: Provided that the SR equity shares may be valid for upto an additional five years, after a resolution to that effect has been passed, where the SR shareholders have not been permitted to vote:
Provided further that the SR shareholders may convert their SR equity shares into ordinary equity shares at any time prior to the period as specified in this sub-regulation.
(5)The SR equity shares shall be compulsorily converted into equity shares having voting rights same as that of ordinary shares on the occurrence of any of the following events -
i.demise of the promoter(s) or founder holding such shares;
ii.an SR shareholder resigns from the executive position in the listed entity;
iii.merger or acquisition of the listed entity having SR shareholder/s, where the control would no longer remain with the SR shareholder/s;
iv.the SR equity shares are sold by an SR shareholder who continues to hold such shares after the lock-in period but prior to the lapse of validity of such SR equity shares.]
42.(1) The listed entity shall intimate the record date to all the stock exchange(s) where it
is listed for the following purposes:
(a)declaration of dividend;
(b)issue of right or bonus shares;
(c)issue of shares for conversion of debentures or any other convertible security;
(d)shares arising out of rights attached to debentures or any other convertible security
(e)corporate actions like mergers, de-mergers, splits and bonus shares, where stock derivatives are available on the stock of listed entity or where listed entity's stocks form part of an index on which derivatives are available;
(f)such other purposes as may be specified by the stock exchange(s).
(2)The listed entity shall give notice in advance of atleast seven working days (excluding the date of intimation and the record date) to stock exchange(s) of record date specifying the purpose of the record date:
97[Provided that in the case of rights issues, the listed entity shall give notice in advance of atleast three working days (excluding the date of intimation and the record date).]
(3)The listed entity shall recommend or declare all dividend and/or cash bonuses at least five working days (excluding the date of intimation and the record date) before the record date fixed for the purpose.
(4)The listed entity shall ensure the time gap of at least thirty days between two record dates.
97Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 26.12.2019.
47
(5)For securities held in physical form, the listed entity may, announce dates of closure of its transfer books in place of record date for complying with requirements as specified in sub- regulations (1) to (4):
43.(1) The listed entity shall declare and disclose the dividend on per share basis only.
(2)The listed entity shall not forfeit unclaimed dividends before the claim becomes barred by law and such forfeiture, if effected, shall be annulled in appropriate cases.
98[Dividend Distribution Policy.
43A (1) The top five hundred listed entities based on market capitalization (calculated as on March 31 of every financial year) shall formulate a dividend distribution policy which shall be disclosed in their annual reports and on their websites.
(2)The dividend distribution policy shall include the following parameters:
(a)the circumstances under which the shareholders of the listed entities may or may not expect dividend;
(b)the financial parameters that shall be considered while declaring dividend;
(c)internal and external factors that shall be considered for declaration of dividend;
(d)policy as to how the retained earnings shall be utilized; and
(e)parameters that shall be adopted with regard to various classes of shares:
Provided that if the listed entity proposes to declare dividend on the basis of parameters in addition to clauses (a) to (e) or proposes to change such additional parameters or the dividend distribution policy contained in any of the parameters, it shall disclose such changes along with the rationale for the same in its annual report and on its website.
44.(1) The listed entity shall provide the facility of remote e-voting facility to its shareholders, in respect of all shareholders' resolutions.
(2)The e-voting facility to be provided to shareholders in terms of sub-regulation (1), shall be provided in compliance with the conditions specified under the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, or amendments made thereto.
(3)The listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange, within forty eight hours of conclusion of its General Meeting, details regarding the voting results in the format specified by the Board.
98Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 08.07.2016.
99Substituted for “Voting by shareholders” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
48
(4)The listed entity shall send proxy forms to holders of securities in all cases mentioning that a holder may vote either for or against each resolution.
100[(5) The top 100 listed entities by market capitalization, determined as on March 31st of every financial year, shall hold their annual general meetings within a period of five months from the date of closing of the financial year.
(6)The top 100 listed entities shall provide one-way live webcast of the proceedings of the annual general meetings.
Explanation: The top 100 entities shall be determined on the basis of market capitalisation, as at the end of the immediate previous financial year.]
45.(1) The listed entity shall be allowed to change its name subject to compliance with the following conditions:
(a)a time period of at least one year has elapsed from the last name change;
(b)at least fifty percent. of the total revenue in the preceding one year period has been accounted for by the new activity suggested by the new name; or
(c)the amount invested in the new activity/project is atleast fifty percent. of the assets of the listed entity:
Provided that if any listed entity has changed its activities which are not reflected in its name, it shall change its name in line with its activities within a period of six months from the change of activities in compliance of provisions as applicable to change of name prescribed under Companies Act, 2013.
Explanation.- For the purpose of this regulation, -
(i)'assets' of the listed entity means the sum of fixed assets, advances, works in Progress / Inventories, investments, trade receivables, cash & cash equivalents;
(ii)‘advances’ shall include only those amounts extended to contractors and suppliers towards execution of project, specific to new activity as reflected in the new name.
46.(1) The listed entity shall maintain a functional website containing the basic information about the listed entity.
100Inserted ibid.
49
(2)The listed entity shall disseminate the following information 101[under a separate section on its website]:
(a)details of its business;
(b)terms and conditions of appointment of independent directors;
(c)composition of various committees of board of directors;
(d)code of conduct of board of directors and senior management personnel;
(e)details of establishment of vigil mechanism/ Whistle Blower policy;
(f)criteria of making payments to non-executive directors , if the same has not been disclosed in annual report;
(g)policy on dealing with related party transactions;
(h)policy for determining ‘material’ subsidiaries;
(i)details of familiarization programmes imparted to independent directors including the following details:-
(i)number of programmes attended by independent directors (during the year and
on a cumulative basis till date),
(ii)number of hours spent by independent directors in such programmes (during the year and on cumulative basis till date), and
(iii)other relevant details
(j)the email address for grievance redressal and other relevant details;
(k)contact information of the designated officials of the listed entity who are responsible for assisting and handling investor grievances;
(l)financial information including:
(i)notice of meeting of the board of directors where financial results shall be discussed;
(ii)financial results, on conclusion of the meeting of the board of directors where the financial results were approved;
(iii)complete copy of the annual report including balance sheet, profit and loss account, directors report, corporate governance report etc;
(m)shareholding pattern;
(n)details of agreements entered into with the media companies and/or their associates, etc;
(o)schedule of analyst or institutional investor meet and presentations made by the listed entity to analysts or institutional investors simultaneously with submission to stock exchange;
(p)new name and the old name of the listed entity for a continuous period of one year, from the date of the last name change;
(q)items in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 47 .
102[(r) With effect from October 1, 2018, all credit ratings obtained by the entity for all its outstanding instruments, updated immediately as and when there is any revision in any of the ratings.
(s)separate audited financial statements of each subsidiary of the listed entity in respect of a relevant financial year, uploaded at least 21 days prior to the date of the annual general meeting which has been called to inter alia consider accounts of that financial year.]
(3)(a) The listed entity shall ensure that the contents of the website are correct.
101Substituted for the words “on its website” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.
102Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. the date specified.
47.(1) The listed entity shall publish the following information in the newspaper:
(a)notice of meeting of the board of directors where financial results shall be discussed
(b)financial results, as specified in regulation 33, along-with the modified opinion(s) or reservation(s), if any, expressed by the auditor:
Provided that if the listed entity has submitted both standalone and consolidated financial results, the listed entity shall publish consolidated financial results along- with (1) Turnover, (2) Profit before tax and (3) Profit after tax, on a stand-alone basis, as a foot note; and a reference to the places, such as the website of listed entity and stock exchange(s), where the standalone results of the listed entity are available.
(c)statements of deviation(s) or variation(s) as specified in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 32 on quarterly basis, after review by audit committee and its explanation in directors report in annual report;
(d)notices given to shareholders by advertisement.
(2)The listed entity shall give a reference in the newspaper publication, in sub-regulation (1), to link of the website of listed entity and stock exchange(s), where further details are available.
(3)The listed entity shall publish the information specified in sub-regulation (1) in the newspaper simultaneously with the submission of the same to the stock exchange(s). Provided that financial results at clause (b) of sub-regulation (1), shall be published within 48 hours of conclusion of the meeting of board of directors at which the financial results were approved.
(4)The information at sub-regulation (1) shall be published in at least one English language national daily newspaper circulating in the whole or substantially the whole of India and in one daily newspaper published in the language of the region, where the registered office of the listed entity is situated:
48.The listed entity shall comply with all the applicable and notified Accounting Standards from time to time.
49.(1) The provisions of this chapter shall apply only to a listed entity which has listed its
‘Non-convertible Debt Securities’ and/or ‘Non-Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares’ on a recognised stock exchange in accordance with Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 or Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares) Regulations, 2013 respectively.
(2)The provisions of this chapter shall also be applicable to “perpetual debt instrument” and "perpetual non-cumulative preference share” listed by banks.
Explanation (1).- For the purpose of this chapter, “Bank" means any bank included in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
Explanation (2).- For the purpose of this chapter, if the listed entity has listed its non- convertible redeemable preference shares:
(i)The reference to “interest” may also read as dividend;
(ii)The provisions concerning debenture trustees and security creation (or asset cover or charge on assets) shall not be applicable for “non-convertible redeemable preference shares”
50.(1) The listed entity shall give prior intimation to the stock exchange(s) at least eleven working days before the date on and from which the interest on debentures and bonds, and redemption amount of redeemable shares or of debentures and bonds shall be payable.
(2)The listed entity shall intimate the stock exchange(s), its intention to raise funds through new non-convertible debt securities or non-convertible redeemable preference shares it proposes to list either through a public issue or on private placement basis, prior to issuance of such securities:
Provided that the above intimation may be given prior to the meeting of board of directors wherein the proposal to raise funds through new non convertible debt securities or non- convertible redeemable preference shares shall be considered.
(3)The listed entity shall intimate to the stock exchange(s), at least two working days in advance, excluding the date of the intimation and date of the meeting, regarding the meeting of its board of directors, at which the recommendation or declaration of issue of non convertible debt securities or any other matter affecting the rights or interests of holders of non convertible debt securities or non convertible redeemable preference shares is proposed to be considered.
52
51.(1) The listed entity shall promptly inform the stock exchange(s) of all information having bearing on the performance/operation of the listed entity, price sensitive information or any action that shall affect payment of interest or dividend of non- convertible preference shares or redemption of non convertible debt securities or
redeemable preference shares.
Explanation.- The expression ‘promptly inform’, shall imply that the stock exchange must be informed as soon as practically possible and without any delay and that the information shall be given first to the stock exchange(s) before providing the same to any third party.
(2)Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation(1), the listed entity who has issued or is issuing non-convertible debt securities and/or non-convertible redeemable preference shares shall make disclosures as specified in Part B of Schedule III.
52.(1)The listed entity shall prepare and submit un-audited or audited financial results on a half yearly basis in the format as specified by the Board within forty five days from the end of the half year to the recognised stock exchange(s).
103[Provided that in case of entities which have listed their equity shares and debt securities, a copy of the financial results submitted to stock exchanges shall be provided to Debenture Trustees on the same day the information is submitted to stock exchanges.]
(2)The listed entity shall comply with following requirements with respect to preparation, approval, authentication and publication of annual and half-yearly financial results:
(a)Un-audited financial results shall be accompanied by limited review report prepared by the statutory auditors of the listed entity or in case of public sector undertakings, by any practising Chartered Accountant, in the format as specified by the Board:
Provided that if the listed entity intimates in advance to the stock exchange(s) that it shall submit to the stock exchange(s) its annual audited results within sixty days from the end of the financial year, un-audited financial results for the last half year accompanied by limited review report by the auditors need not be submitted to stock exchange(s).
(b)Half-yearly results shall be taken on record by the board of directors and signed by the managing director / executive director.
(c)The audited results for the year shall be submitted to the recognised stock exchange(s) in the same format as is applicable for half-yearly financial results.
(d)If the listed entity opts to submit un-audited financial results for the last half year accompanied by limited review report by the auditors, it shall also submit audited financial results for the entire financial year, as soon as they are approved by the board of directors.
103Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. May 07, 2019
53
(e)Modified opinion(s) in audit reports that have a bearing on the interest payment/ dividend payment pertaining to non-convertible redeemable debentures/ redemption or principal repayment capacity of the listed entity shall be appropriately and adequately addressed by the board of directors while publishing the accounts for the said period.
(3)(a) The annual audited financial results shall be submitted along with the annual audit
report and [Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications (applicable only]104 for audit report with modified opinion[)]105[;]106
[Provided that, in case of audit reports with unmodified opinion, the listed entity shall furnish a declaration to that effect to the Stock Exchange(s) while publishing the annual audited financial results.]107
(b)The [Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications (for audit report with modified opinion]108 and the accompanying annual audit report submitted in terms of clause (a) shall be reviewed by the stock exchange(s) [***]109.
(c)[***]110
(d)The applicable [format]111 of [Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications (for audit
report with modified opinion)]112 shall be [in the manner as]113 specified by the Board [***]114.
(4)The listed entity, while submitting half yearly / annual financial results, shall disclose the following line items along with the financial results:
104Substituted for ‘either Form A for audit report with unmodified opinion, or Form B’ by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016.
105Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016.
106Substituted for the symbol ‘.’ by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016.
107Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016.
108Substituted for ‘Form B’ by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016.
109The words ‘and the Qualified Audit Report Review Committee in the manner specified in Schedule VIII’ omitted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016.
110Omitted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016. Prior to omission, sub regulation (3) read as follows:
‘The listed entity shall on the direction issued by the Board, carry out the necessary steps, for rectification of modified opinion and/or submission of revised pro-forma financial results, in the manner specified in Schedule
VIII’
111Substituted for ‘formats’ by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016
112Substituted for ‘Form A and Form B’ by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016
113Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016.
114The words ‘from time to time’ omitted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016
54
(a)credit rating and change in credit rating (if any);
(b)asset cover available, in case of non convertible debt securities;
(c)debt-equity ratio;
(d)previous due date for the payment of interest/ dividend for non-convertible redeemable preference shares/ repayment of principal of non-convertible preference shares /non convertible debt securities and whether the same has been paid or not; and,
(e)next due date for the payment of interest/ dividend of non-convertible preference shares /principal along with the amount of interest/ dividend of non-convertible preference shares payable and the redemption amount;
(f)debt service coverage ratio;
(g)interest service coverage ratio;
(h)outstanding redeemable preference shares (quantity and value);
(i)capital redemption reserve/debenture redemption reserve;
(j)net worth;
(k)net profit after tax;
(l)earnings per share:
Provided that the requirement of disclosures of debt service coverage ratio, asset cover and interest service coverage ratio shall not be applicable for banks or non banking financial companies registered with the Reserve Bank of India.
Provided further that the requirement of this sub- regulation shall not be applicable in case of unsecured debt instruments issued by regulated financial sector entities eligible for meeting capital requirements as specified by respective regulators.
115[(5) The listed entity shall, within seven working days from the date of submission of the
information required under sub- regulation (4), submit to stock exchange(s), a certificate signed by debenture trustee that it has taken note of the contents.]
(6) The listed entity which has listed its non convertible redeemable preference shares shall make the following additional disclosures as notes to financials:
(a)profit for the half year and cumulative profit for the year;
(b)free reserve as on the end of half year;
(c)securities premium account balance (if redemption of redeemable preference share is to be done at a premium, such premium may be appropriated from securities premium account):
Provided that disclosure on securities premium account balance may be provided only in the year in which non convertible redeemable preference shares are due for redemption;
(d)track record of dividend payment on non convertible redeemable preference shares: Provided that in case the dividend has been deferred at any time, then the actual date of payment shall be disclosed;
115 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. May 07, 2019. Prior to the substitution, sub- regulation (5) read as follows:
"(5) While submitting the information required under sub- regulation (4), the listed entity shall submit to stock exchange(s), a certificate signed by debenture trustee that it has taken note of the contents."
55
(e)breach of any covenants under the terms of the non convertible redeemable preference shares:
Provided that in case a listed entity is planning a fresh issuance of shares whose end use is servicing of the non convertible redeemable preference shares (whether dividend or principle redemption), then the same shall be disclosed whenever the listed entity decided on such issuances.
53.The annual report of the listed entity shall contain disclosures as specified in Companies Act, 2013 along with the following:
(a)audited financial statements i.e. balance sheets, profit and loss accounts etc [, and Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications as stipulated in regulation 52(3)(a), if applicable;]116
(b)cash flow statement presented only under the indirect method as prescribed in Accounting Standard-3/ Indian Accounting Standard 7, mandated under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with relevant rules framed thereunder or by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, whichever is applicable;
(c)auditors report;
(d)directors report;
(e)name of the debenture trustees with full contact details ;
(f)related party disclosures as specified in Para A of Schedule V.
54.(1) In respect of its listed non-convertible debt securities, the listed entity shall maintain hundred per cent. asset cover sufficient to discharge the principal amount at all times for the non-convertible debt securities issued.
(2)The listed entity shall disclose to the stock exchange in quarterly, half-yearly, year- to-date and annual financial statements, as applicable, the extent and nature of security created and maintained with respect to its secured listed non-convertible debt securities.
(3)The requirement specified in sub-regulation (1), shall not be applicable in case of unsecured debt securities issued by regulated financial sector entities eligible for meeting capital requirements as specified by respective regulators.
Credit Rating.
116Substituted for the symbol ‘;’ by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016
55.Each rating obtained by the listed entity with respect to non-convertible debt securities shall be reviewed at least once a year by a credit rating agency registered by the Board.
56.(1) The listed entity shall forward the following to the debenture trustee promptly:
(a)a copy of the annual report at the same time as it is issued along with a copy of certificate from the listed entity's auditors in respect of utilisation of funds during the implementation period of the project for which the funds have been raised:
Provided that in the case of debentures or preference shares issued for financing working capital or general corporate purposes or for capital raising purposes the copy of the auditor's certificate may be submitted at the end of each financial year till the funds have been fully utilised or the purpose for which these funds were intended has been achieved.
(b)a copy of all notices, resolutions and circulars relating to-
(i)new issue of non convertible debt securities at the same time as they are sent to shareholders/ holders of non convertible debt securities;
(ii)the meetings of holders of non-convertible debt securities at the same time as they are sent to the holders of non convertible debt securities or advertised in the media including those relating to proceedings of the meetings;
(c)intimations regarding :
(i)any revision in the rating;
(ii)any default in timely payment of interest or redemption or both in respect of the non convertible debt securities;
(iii)failure to create charge on the assets;
(d)a half-yearly certificate regarding maintenance of hundred percent. asset cover in respect of listed non convertible debt securities, by either a practicing company secretary or a practicing chartered accountant, along with the half yearly financial results:
Provided that submission of such half yearly certificates is not applicable in cases where a listed entity is a bank or non banking financial companies registered with Reserve Bank of India or where bonds are secured by a Government guarantee.
57.(1) The listed entity shall submit a certificate to the stock exchange within two days of the interest or principal or both becoming due that it has made timely payment of interests or principal obligations or both in respect of the non convertible debt securities.
(2)The listed entity shall provide an undertaking to the stock exchange(s) on annual basis stating that all documents and intimations required to be submitted to Debenture Trustees in terms of Trust Deed and Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 have been complied with.
(3)The listed entity shall forward to the stock exchange any other information in the manner and format as specified by the Board from time to time.
57
58.(1) The listed entity shall send the following documents:
(a)Soft copies of full annual reports to all the holders of non convertible preference share who have registered their email address(es) for the purpose;
(b)Hard copy of statement containing the salient features of all the documents, as specified in Section 136 of Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder to those holders of non convertible preference share who have not so registered;
(c)Hard copies of full annual reports to those holders of non convertible debt securities and non convertible preference share, who request for the same.
(d)Half yearly communication as specified in sub-regulation (4) and (5) of regulation 52, to holders of non convertible debt securities and non convertible preference shares;
(2)The listed entity shall send the notice of all meetings of holders of non convertible debt securities and holders of non-convertible redeemable preference shares specifically stating that the provisions for appointment of proxy as mentioned in Section 105 of the Companies Act, 2013, shall be applicable for such meeting.
59.(1) The listed entity shall not make material modification without prior approval of the stock exchange(s) where the non convertible debt securities or non-convertible redeemable preference shares, as applicable, are listed, to :
(a)the structure of the debenture in terms of coupon, conversion, redemption, or otherwise.
(b)the structure of the non-convertible redeemable preference shares in terms of dividend of non-convertible preference shares payable, conversion, redemption, or otherwise.
(2)The approval of the stock exchange referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be made only after:
(a)approval of the board of directors and the debenture trustee in case of non- convertible debt securities and
(b)after complying with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 including approval of the consent of requisite majority of holders of that class of securities.
60.(1) The listed entity shall fix a record date for purposes of payment of interest, dividend and payment of redemption or repayment amount or for such other purposes as specified by the stock exchange.
(2)The listed entity shall give notice in advance of at least seven working days (excluding the date of intimation and the record date) to the recognised stock exchange(s) of the
58
record date or of as many days as the stock exchange(s) may agree to or require specifying the purpose of the record date.
61.(1) The listed entity shall ensure timely payment of interest or dividend of non-
convertible redeemable preference shares or redemption payment:
Provided that the listed entity shall not declare or distribute any dividend wherein it has defaulted in payment of interest on debt securities or redemption thereof or in creation of security as per the terms of the issue of debt securities:
Provided further that this requirement shall not be applicable in case of unsecured debt securities issued by regulated financial sector entities eligible for meeting capital requirements as specified by respective regulators.
(2)The listed entity shall not forfeit unclaimed interest/dividend and such unclaimed interest/dividend shall be transferred to the ‘Investor Education and Protection Fund’ set up as per Section 125 of the Companies Act, 2013.
(3)Unless the terms of issue provide otherwise, the listed entity shall not select any of its listed securities for redemption otherwise than pro rata basis or by lot.
(4)The listed entity shall comply with requirements as specified in regulation 40 for transfer of securities including procedural requirements specified in Schedule VII.
62.(1) The listed entity shall maintain a functional website containing the following information about the listed entity:-
(a)details of its business;
(b)financial information including complete copy of the annual report including balance sheet, profit and loss account, directors report etc;
(c)contact information of the designated officials of the listed entity who are responsible for assisting and handling investor grievances;
(d)email address for grievance redressal and other relevant details;
(e)name of the debenture trustees with full contact details;
(f)the information, report, notices, call letters, circulars, proceedings, etc concerning non-convertible redeemable preference shares or non convertible debt securities;
(g)all information and reports including compliance reports filed by the listed entity;
(h)information with respect to the following events:
(i)default by issuer to pay interest on or redemption amount;
(ii)failure to create a charge on the assets;
(iii)revision of rating assigned to the non convertible debt securities:
63.(1) Entity which has listed its ‘specified securities’ and ‘non-convertible debt securities’ or ‘non-convertible redeemable preference shares’ or both on any recognised stock exchange, shall be bound by the provisions in Chapter IV of these regulations.
(2)The listed entity described in sub-regulation (1) shall additionally comply with the following regulations in Chapter V:
(a)regulation 50(2),(3);
(b)regulation 51;
(c)regulation 52(3), (4), (5) and (6);
(d)regulation 53
(e)regulation 54
(f)regulation 55
(g)regulation 56
(h)regulation 57
(i)regulation 58
(j)regulation 59
(k)regulation 60
(l)regulation 61:
Provided that the listed entity which has submitted any information to the stock exchange in compliance with the disclosure requirements under Chapter IV of these regulations, need not re-submit any such information under the provisions of this regulations without prejudice to any power conferred on the Board or the stock exchange or any other authority under any law to seek any such information from the listed entity:
Provided further that the listed entity, which has satisfied certain obligations in compliance with other chapters, shall not separately satisfy the same conditions under this chapter.
64.(1) In the event specified securities of the listed entity are delisted from the stock exchange, the listed entity shall comply with all the provisions in Chapter V of these regulations.
(2)In the event that non-convertible debt securities and non-convertible redeemable preference shares’ of the listed entity do not remain listed on the stock exchange, the listed entity shall comply with all the provisions in Chapter IV of these regulations.
65.The provisions of this chapter shall apply to listed entity whose securities market regulators are signatories to the Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding of International Organization of Securities Commission issuing ‘Indian Depository Receipts’ as defined under Rule 13 of the Companies (Registration of Foreign Companies) Rules, 2014.
66.For the purpose of this chapter , unless the context otherwise requires -
(a)“IDR Holder(s)” shall mean holder(s) of Indian Depository Receipts.
(b)“Depository Agreement” shall mean an agreement between the listed entity and the domestic depository
(c)“Home Country” or “country of origin” shall mean the country or parent country where the listed entity is incorporated and listed.
(d)“Security holder” shall mean holder of the security or equity shares of the listed entity in the home country.
67.(1) All correspondences filed with the stock exchange(s) and those sent to the IDR Holders shall be in English.
(2)The listed entity shall comply, at all times, with the rules/regulations/laws of the country of origin.
(3)The listed entity shall undertake that the competent Courts, Tribunals and regulatory authorities in India shall have jurisdiction in the event of any dispute, either with the stock exchange or any investor, concerning the India Depository Receipts offered or subscribed or bought in India.
(4)The listed entity shall forward, on a continuous basis, any information requested by the stock exchange, in the interest of investors from time to time.
(5)In case of any claim, difference or dispute under the provisions of this chapter and other provisions of these regulations applicable to the listed entity, the same shall be referred to and decided by arbitration as provided in the bye-laws and regulations of the stock exchange(s).
68.(1) The listed entity shall promptly inform to the stock exchange(s) of all events which are material, all information which is price sensitive and/or have bearing on performance/operation of the listed entity.
(2)Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the listed entity shall make the disclosures as specified in Part C of Schedule III.
61
69.(1) The listed entity shall file with the stock exchange the Indian Depository Receipt holding pattern on a quarterly basis within fifteen days of end of the quarter in the format specified by the Board.
(2)The listed entity shall file the following details with the stock exchange as is required to be filed in compliance with the disclosure requirements of the listing authority or stock exchange in its home country or any other jurisdiction where the securities of the listed entity are listed:
(a)Shareholding Pattern;
(b)Pre and post arrangement share holding pattern and Capital Structure in case of any corporate restructuring like mergers / amalgamations
70.(1) The listed entity shall file periodical financial results with the stock exchange in such manner and within such time and to the extent that it is required to file as per the listing requirements of the home country.
(2)The listed entity shall comply with the requirements with respect to preparation and disclosures in financial results as specified in Part B of Schedule IV.
71.(1) The listed entity shall submit to stock exchange an annual report at the same time as it is disclosed to the security holder in its home country or in other jurisdictions where such securities are listed.
(2)The annual report shall contain the following:
(a)Report of board of directors;
(b)Balance Sheet;
(c)Profit and Loss Account;
(d)Auditors Report;
(e)All periodical and special reports( if applicable);
(f)Any such other report which is required to be sent to security holders annually.
72.(1) The listed entity shall comply with the corporate governance provisions as applicable in its home country and other jurisdictions in which its equity shares are listed.
(2)The listed entity shall submit to stock exchange a comparative analysis of the corporate governance provisions that are applicable in its home country and in the other jurisdictions in which its equity shares are listed along with the compliance of the same vis-à-vis the corporate governance requirements applicable under regulation 17 to regulation 27, to other listed entities.
62
73.The listed entity shall disclose/send the following documents to IDR Holders, at the same time and to the extent that it discloses to security holders in its home country or in other jurisdictions where its securities are listed:
(a)Soft copies of the annual report to all the IDR holders who have registered their email address(es) for the purpose
(b)Hard copy of the annual report to those IDR holders who request for the same either through domestic depository or Compliance Officer
(c)the pre and post arrangement capital structure and share holding pattern in case of any corporate restructuring like mergers / amalgamations and other schemes
74.(1)If the listed entity's equity shares or other securities representing equity shares are also listed on the stock exchange(s) in countries other than its home country, it shall ensure that IDR Holders are treated in a manner equitable with security holders in home country.
(2)The listed entity shall ensure that for all corporate actions, except those which are not permitted by Indian laws, it shall treat IDR holders in a manner equitable with security holders in the home country.
(3)In case of take-over or delisting or buy-back of its equity shares, the listed entity shall, while following the laws applicable in its home country, give equitable treatment to IDR holders vis-à-vis security holder in home country.
(4)The listed entity shall ensure protection of interests of IDR holders particularly with respect to all corporate benefits permissible under Indian laws and the laws of its home country and shall address all investor grievances adequately.
75.(1)The listed entity shall publish the following information in the newspaper :
(a)periodical financial results required to be disclosed;
(b)Notices given to its IDR Holders by advertisement;
76.(1) The listed entity shall pay the dividend as per the timeframe applicable in its home country or other jurisdictions where its securities are listed, whichever is earlier, so as to reach the IDR Holders on or before the date fixed for payment of dividend to holders of its equity share or other securities.
(2)The listed entity shall not forfeit unclaimed dividends before the claim becomes barred by law in the home country of the listed entity, as may be applicable, and that such forfeiture, when effected, shall be annulled in appropriate cases.
63
(3)The Indian Depository Receipts shall have two-way fungibility in the manner specified by the Board from time to time.
77.(1) The listed entity shall ensure that the underlying shares of IDRs shall rank pari- passu with the existing shares of the same class and the fact of having different classes of shares based on different criteria, if any, shall be disclosed by the listed entity in the annual report.
(2)The listed entity shall not exercise a lien on the fully paid underlying shares, against which the IDRs are issued, and that in respect of partly paid underlying shares, against which the IDRs are issued and shall also not exercise any lien except in respect of moneys called or payable at a fixed time in respect of such underlying shares.
(3)The listed entity, subject to the requirements under the laws and regulations of its home country, if any amount be paid up in advance of calls on any underlying shares against which the IDRs are issued, shall stipulate that such amount may carry interest but shall not in respect thereof confer a right to dividend or to participate in profits.
78.(1) The listed entity, where it is required so to do in its home country or other jurisdictions where its securities may be listed, shall fix the record date for the purpose of payment of dividends or distribution of any other corporate benefits to IDR Holders.
(2)The listed entity shall give notice in advance of at least four working days to the recognised stock exchange(s) of record date specifying the purpose of the record date.
79.(1) The listed entity shall, either directly or through an agent, send out proxy forms to IDR Holders in all cases mentioning that a security holder may vote either for or against each resolution.
(2)Voting rights of the IDR Holders shall be exercised in accordance with the depository agreement.
80.(1) The listed entity shall, if it decides to delist Indian Depository Receipts, give fair and reasonable treatment to IDR holders.
(2)The listed entity shall comply with such norms and conditions for delisting Indian Depository Receipts as specified by the Board or stock exchange in this regard.
(3)The listed entity shall, in case underlying equity shares are delisted, shall delist and cancel the Indian Depository Receipts.
81.(1) The provisions of this chapter shall apply to Special Purpose Distinct Entity issuing securitised debt instruments and trustees of Special Purpose Distinct Entity shall ensure compliance with each of the provisions of these regulations.
(2)The expressions "asset pool", "clean up call option", "credit enhancement", "debt or receivables", "investor", "liquidity provider", "obligor", "originator", "regulated activity", "scheme", "securitization", "securitized debt instrument", "servicer", "special purpose distinct entity", "sponsor" and "trustee" shall have the same meaning as assigned to them under [Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) Regulations, 2008]117;
82.(1) The listed entity shall intimate the Stock exchange, of its intention to issue new securitized debt instruments either through a public issue or on private placement basis (if it proposes to list such privately placed debt securities on the Stock exchange) prior to issuing such securities.
(2)The listed entity shall intimate to the stock exchange(s), at least two working days in advance, excluding the date of the intimation and date of the meeting, regarding the meeting of its board of trustees, at which the recommendation or declaration of issue of securitized debt instruments or any other matter affecting the rights or interests of holders of securitized debt instruments is proposed to be considered.
(3)The listed entity shall submit such statements, reports or information including financial information pertaining to Schemes to stock exchange within seven days from the end of the month/ actual payment date, either by itself or through the servicer, on a monthly basis in the format as specified by the Board from time to time:
Provided that where periodicity of the receivables is not monthly, reporting shall be made for the relevant periods.
(4)The listed entity shall provide the stock exchange, either by itself or through the servicer, loan level information, without disclosing particulars of individual borrowers, in manner specified by stock exchange.
83.(1) The listed entity shall promptly inform the stock exchange(s) of all information having bearing on the on performance/operation of the listed entity and price sensitive information.
117Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 06.09.2018. Prior to this, it read as “Securities and Exchange Board of India (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2008”.
65
(2)Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation(1), the listed entity shall make the disclosures specified in Part D of Schedule III.
Explanation.- The expression ‘promptly inform’, shall imply that the stock exchange must be informed must as soon as practically possible and without any delay and that the information shall be given first to the stock exchange(s) before providing the same to any third party.
84.(1) Every rating obtained by the listed entity with respect to securitised debt instruments shall be periodically reviewed, preferably once a year, by a credit rating agency registered by the Board.
(2) Any revision in rating(s) shall be disseminated by the stock exchange(s).
85.(1) The listed entity shall provide either by itself or through the servicer, loan level information without disclosing particulars of individual borrower to its investors.
(2)The listed entity shall provide information regarding revision in rating as a result of credit rating done periodically in terms of regulation 84 above to its investors.
(3)The information at sub-regulation (1) and (2) may be sent to investors in electronic form/fax if so consented by the investors.
(4)The listed entity shall display the email address of the grievance redressal division and other relevant details prominently on its website and in the various materials / pamphlets/ advertisement campaigns initiated by it for creating investor awareness.
86.(1) The listed entity shall ensure that no material modification shall be made to the structure of the securitized debt instruments in terms of coupon, conversion, redemption, or otherwise without prior approval of the recognised stock exchange(s) where the securitized debt instruments are listed and the listed entity shall make an application to the recognised stock exchange(s) only after the approval by Trustees.
(2) The listed entity shall ensure timely interest/ redemption payment.
(3)The listed entity shall ensure that where credit enhancement has been provided for, it shall make credit enhancement available for listed securitized debt instruments at all times.
(4)The listed entity shall not forfeit unclaimed interest and principal and such unclaimed interest and principal shall be, after a period of seven years, transferred to the Investor Protection and Education Fund established under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection and Education Fund) Regulations, 2009.
(5)Unless the terms of issue provide otherwise, the listed entity shall not select any of its listed securitized debt instruments for redemption otherwise than on pro rata basis or by lot and shall promptly submit to the recognised stock exchange(s) the details thereof.
66
(6)The listed entity shall remain listed till the maturity or redemption of securitised debt instruments or till the same are delisted as per the procedure laid down by the Board Provided that the provisions of this sub-regulation shall not restrict the right of the recognised stock exchange(s) to delist, suspend or remove the securities at any time and for any reason which the recognised stock exchange(s) considers proper in accordance with the applicable legal provisions.
87.(1) The listed entity shall fix a record date for payment of interest and payment of redemption or repayment amount or for such other purposes as specified by the recognised stock exchange(s).
87A. (1) The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the issuer of security receipts which has listed its security receipts and the issuer and its sponsor shall ensure compliance with each of the provisions of these Regulations.
(2)The expressions “asset reconstruction company”, "investor", “issue”, “issuer”, “offer for sale”, “private placement offer”, “qualified buyer”, "scheme", “security receipts”, "sponsor", and “valuer” shall have the same meaning as assigned to them under Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) Regulations, 2008.
87B. (1) The listed entity shall first disclose to stock exchange(s) of all events or information, as specified in Part E of Schedule III, as soon as reasonably possible but not later than twenty four hours from occurrence of the event or information:
Provided that in case the disclosure is made after twenty four hours of occurrence of the event or information, the listed entity shall, along with such disclosures provide explanation for the delay.
(2)The listed entity with respect to disclosures referred to in this regulation, shall provide updates related to such disclosures on a regular basis, till such time the event is resolved/closed, with relevant explanations.
118Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 06.09.2018.
67
(3)The listed entity shall provide specific and adequate reply to all queries raised by stock exchange(s) with respect to any events or information.
Provided that the stock exchange(s) shall disseminate information and clarification as soon as reasonably practicable.
(4)The listed entity, suo moto, may confirm or deny any reported event or information to stock exchange(s).
(5)The listed entity shall disclose on its website or on the website of the sponsor all such events or information which has been disclosed to stock exchange(s) under this regulation, and such disclosures shall be hosted on the website of the listed entity for a minimum period of five years and thereafter as per the archival policy of the listed entity, as disclosed on its website.
87C. (1) An issuer whose security receipts are listed on a stock exchange shall ensure that:
(i)the listed security receipts are valued at the end of each quarter i.e. as on March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of every year;
(ii)valuation is conducted by an independent valuer; and
(iii)the net asset value is calculated on the basis of such independent valuation and the same is declared by the asset reconstruction company within fifteen days of the end of the quarter.
(2)The issuer shall also comply with the extant Reserve Bank of India requirement of obtaining credit rating of security receipts at half yearly interval and declaration of the net asset value thereafter and/or any other requirement as prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India from time to time.
87D. (1) Any security receipt issued would be transferable only in favour of qualified buyers in terms of Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002.
(2)Unless the terms of issue provide otherwise, the listed entity shall not select any of its listed security receipts for payments otherwise than on pro rata basis or by lot and shall promptly submit to the stock exchange(s) the details thereof.
87E. (1) The listed entity shall fix a record date for payment to holders of security receipts or for such other purposes as specified by the stock exchange(s).
68
88.(1)The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the asset management company managing the mutual fund scheme whose units are listed on the recognised stock exchange(s).
(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 and directions issued thereunder shall apply on the listed entity and to the schemes whose units are listed on the recognised stock exchange(s).
89.The expressions "Asset Management Company", "Net Asset Value" , "Scheme" , "Unit" and "Unit Holder" shall have the same meaning as assigned to them under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996;
90.(1) The listed entity shall intimate to the recognised stock exchange(s) the information relating to daily Net Asset Value, monthly portfolio, half yearly portfolio of those schemes whose units are listed on the recognised stock exchange(s) in the format as specified under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 and directions issued there under.
(2)The listed entity shall intimate to the recognised stock exchange(s) in the manner specified by the recognised stock exchange(s) of:
(a)movement in unit capital of those schemes whose units are listed on the recognised stock exchange(s);
(b)rating of the scheme whose units are listed on the recognised stock exchange(s) and any changes in the rating thereof (wherever applicable);
(c)imposition of penalties and material litigations against the listed entity and Mutual Fund;
(d)any prohibitory orders restraining the listed entity from transferring units registered in the name of the unit holders.
91.The listed entity shall submit such information and documents, which are required to be disseminated on the listed entity’s website in terms of Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 and directions issued there under, to the recognised stock exchange for dissemination.
92.(1) Upon receipt of relevant intimations, information, filings, reports, statements, documents or any other submissions in terms of these regulations, from the listed entity the recognised stock exchange(s) shall immediately disseminate the same on its website.
(2)The disseminations by the recognised stock exchange(s) as mentioned in sub-regulation
(1)shall be made in organised, user friendly and easily referable manner including by providing hyperlinks for easy accessibility.
93.The recognised stock exchange(s) shall coordinate with Depositories to ensure compliance with the applicable laws or directions of the Board or any competent court with regard to freezing / unfreezing, lock-in/ release of lock-in with respect to securities issued or managed by the listed entity.
94.(1) The designated stock exchange, upon receipt of draft schemes of arrangement and the documents prescribed by the Board, as per sub-regulation (1) of regulation 37, shall forward the same to the Board, in the manner prescribed by the Board.
(2)The stock exchange(s) shall submit to the Board its Objection Letter or No- Objection Letter on the draft scheme of arrangement after inter-alia ascertaining whether the draft scheme of arrangement is in compliance with securities laws within thirty days of receipt of draft scheme of arrangement or within seven days of date of receipt of satisfactory reply on clarifications from the listed entity and/or opinion from independent chartered accountant, if any, sought by stock exchange(s), as applicable.
(3)The stock exchange(s), shall issue Observation Letter or No-objection letter to the listed entity within seven days of receipt of comments from the Board, after suitably incorporating such comments in the Observation Letter or No-objection letter:
Provided that the validity of the ‘Observation Letter’ or No-objection letter of stock exchanges shall be six months from the date of issuance.
(4)The stock exchange(s) shall bring the observations or objections, as the case may be, to the notice of Court or Tribunal at the time of approval of the scheme of arrangement.
(5)Upon sanction of the Scheme by the Court or Tribunal, the designated stock exchange shall forward its recommendations to the Board on the documents submitted by the listed entity in terms of sub-regulation (5) of regulation 37.
70
95.The recognised stock exchange(s) shall review the Form B and the accompanying annual audit report, submitted in terms of clause (d) of sub-regulation (3) of regulation 33 and clause (a) of sub-regulation (3) of regulation 52, in the manner specified in Schedule VIII.’ by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 01-04-2016
96.The recognised stock exchange(s) shall redress/facilitate redressal of complaints of holders of listed securities from time to time.
97.(1) The recognised stock exchange(s) shall monitor compliance by the listed entity with provisions of these regulations.
(2)The recognised stock exchange(s) shall also monitor adequacy/ accuracy of the disclosures made by listed entity with respect to provisions of these regulations.
(3)The recognised stock exchange(s) shall submit a report to the Board, with respect to the obligations specified in sub-regulations (1) and (2), in the manner specified by the Board.
(4)The recognised stock exchange(s) shall put in place appropriate framework including adequate manpower and such infrastructure as may be required to comply with the provisions of this regulation.
98.(1) The listed entity or any other person thereof who contravenes any of the provisions of these regulations, shall, in addition to liability for action in terms of the securities laws, be liable for the following actions by the respective stock exchange(s), in the manner specified in circulars or guidelines issued by the Board:
(a)imposition of fines;
(b)suspension of trading;
(c)freezing of promoter/promoter group holding of designated securities, as may be applicable, in coordination with depositories.
(d)any other action as may be specified by the Board from time to time
99A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis.
100.The regulations specified in the Schedule IX to these regulations shall be amended in the manner and to the extent stated therein.
120Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulation, w.e.f. 17-04-2020.
72
101.(1) In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications through guidance notes or circulars after recording reasons in writing.
(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such guidance notes or circulars may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:
(a)procedural aspects including intimation to be given, documents to be submitted;
(b)disclosure requirements;
(c)listing conditions.
102.[(1)]121 The Board may in the interest of investors and securities market and for the development of the securities market, relax the strict enforcement of any requirement of these regulations, if the Board is satisfied that:
(a)any provision of Act(s), Rule(s), regulation(s) under which the listed entity is established or is governed by, is required to be given precedence to; or
(b)the requirement may cause undue hardship to investors; or
(c)the disclosure requirement is not relevant for a particular industry or class of listed entities; or
(d)the requirement is technical in nature; or
(e)the non-compliance is caused due to factors affecting a class of entities but being beyond the control of the entities.
122[(2) For seeking relaxation under sub-regulation (1), an application, giving details and the grounds on which such relaxation has been sought, shall be filed with the Board.
(3)The application referred to under sub-regulation (2) shall be accompanied by a non- refundable fee of rupees one lakh payable by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/ RTGS/ IMPS or any other mode allowed by Reserve Bank of India or by way of a demand draft in favour of the Board payable in Mumbai.]
103.(1) On and from the commencement of these regulations, all circulars stipulating or modifying the provisions of the listing agreements including those specified in Schedule X, shall stand rescinded.
(2)Notwithstanding such rescission, anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken including any enquiry or investigation commenced or show cause notice issued in respect of the circulars specified in sub-regulation (1) or the Listing Agreements, entered into between stock exchange(s) and listed entity, in force prior to the commencement of these regulations, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of these regulations.
121Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 16.11.2018
122Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 16.11.2018
107.(1) The issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, shall obtain in- principle approval from recognised stock exchange as follows:
(a)in case of an initial public offer or an issue of Indian Depository Receipts
(hereinafter referred to as ‘IDRs’) , from all the recognised stock exchange(s) on which the issuer or the issuing company, proposes to get its specified securities or IDRs, as the case may be, listed; and
(b)in case of other issues, before issuance of further securities, as follows:
(i)where the securities are listed only on recognised stock exchange(s) having nationwide trading terminals, from all such stock exchange(s);
(ii)where the securities are not listed on any recognised stock exchange having nationwide trading terminals, from all the stock exchange(s) on which the securities of the issuer are proposed to be listed;
(iii) where the specified are listed on recognised stock exchange(s) having nationwide trading terminals as well as on the recognised stock exchange(s) not having nationwide trading terminals, from all recognised stock exchange(s) having nationwide trading terminals.
108
108. (1) The issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, shall complete the pre-listing formalities within the time lines specified by the Board from time to time.
(2)The issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, shall, make an application for listing, within twenty days from the date of allotment, to one or more recognized stock exchange(s) along with the documents specified by stock exchange(s) from time to time.
(3)In case of delay in making application for listing beyond twenty days from the date of allotment, the issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, shall pay penal interest to allottees for each day of delay at the rate of atleast ten per cent. per annum from the expiry of thirty days from date of allotment till the listing of such securities to the allottees.
(4)In the event of non-receipt of listing permission from the stock exchange(s) by the issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, or withdrawal of Observation Letter issued by the Board, wherever applicable, the securities shall not be eligible for listing and the issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, shall be liable to refund the subscription monies, if any, to the respective allottees immediately alongwith interest at the rate of ten per cent. per annum from the date of allotment.
109.(1) Every issuer or the issuing company desirous of listing its securities on a recognised stock exchange shall execute a listing agreement with such stock exchange.
(2)Every issuer or the issuing company which has previously entered into agreement(s) with a recognised stock exchange to list its securities shall execute a fresh listing agreement with such stock exchange within six months of the date of notification of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
110.The stock exchange(s) shall grant in-principle approval/list the securities or reject the application for in-principle approval /listing by the issuer or issuing company, as the case maybe, within thirty days from the later of the following dates:
(a)the date of receipt of application for in-principle approval/listing from issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be,;
(b)the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, in cases where the stock exchange(s) has sought any clarification from them."
109
(xi)In Schedule VIII, in part E in clause 5, in item XVI, after sub-item B and before sub-item C, the following sub-item shall be inserted, namely:-
"(BA) Dealing with Fractional Entitlement: Manner of dealing with fractional entitlement viz. payment of the equivalent of the value, if any, of the fractional rights in cash etc."
(xii)In Schedule XIX, in part A, in item 13, after sub-item(e), the following sub-item shall be inserted, namely:-
"(f) Different classes of shares based on different criteria, if any."
(xiii)In Schedule XIX, in part A, in item 14, before sub-item (a), the following general instructions shall be inserted, namely:-
General Instructions:
(1)The format of disclosure of financial results may be as per the disclosure requirements of the issuing company in the home country where the Issuing Company is listed.
(2)The issuing company shall intimate to the investors in the offer document the type of disclosures that it will follow i.e. whether as per Indian GAAP, IFRS or US GAAP and any change in such format shall be informed to the IDR Holders by way of notices to the stock exchange.
(xiv)In Schedule XIX, in Part B, in item 2, after sub-item (d), the following sub-item shall be inserted, namely:-
"(e) Different classes of shares based on different criteria, if any."
12A. (1) The Issuer shall ensure that that in case of listing of debt securities issued to public, allotment of securities offered to public shall be made within thirty days of the closure of the public issue.
(2)Where the debt securities are not allotted and/or application moneys are not refunded within the stipulated period in sub-regulation (1), the issuer shall undertake to pay interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum.
(3)Credit to demat accounts of the allottees shall be made within two working days from the date of allotment.”
110
(ii)After regulation 19 and before regulation 20, the following regulations shall be inserted, namely:-
19A. (1) Every issuer desirous of listing its debt securities on a recognised stock exchange shall execute an agreement with such stock exchange.
(2)Every issuer which has previously entered into agreements with a recognised stock exchange to list its debt securities shall execute a fresh listing agreement with such stock exchange within six months of the date of notification of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
19B. (1) The issuer shall deposit, before the opening of subscription list, and keep deposited with the stock exchange(s) an amount calculated at the rate of one per cent. of the amount of securities offered for subscription to the public.
(2)The amount stipulated in sub-regulation (1) shall be deposited in the manner specified by Board and/or stock exchange(s).
(3)The amount stipulated in sub-regulation (1) shall be refundable or forfeitable in the manner specified by the Board."
(iii)For regulation 23, the following shall be substituted, namely:-
16A. (1) Every issuer desirous of listing its non-convertible redeemable preference shares, or perpetual non-cumulative preference shares or innovative perpetual debt instruments on a recognised stock exchange, shall execute an agreement with such stock exchange.
(2)Every issuer which has previously entered into agreements with a recognised stock exchange to list non-convertible redeemable preference shares, or perpetual non- cumulative preference shares or innovative perpetual debt instruments shall execute a fresh listing agreement with such stock exchange within six months of the date of notification of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
16B. (1) The issuer shall deposit, before the opening of subscription list, and keep deposited with the stock exchange(s) an amount calculated at the rate of one per cent. of the amount of securities offered for subscription to the public.
111
(2)The amount stipulated in sub-regulation (1) shall be deposited in the manner specified by Board and/or stock exchange(s).
(3)The amount stipulated in sub-regulation (1) shall be refundable or forfeitable in the manner specified by the Board.”
(ii)In regulation 20, sub-regulations (2) and (3) shall be omitted.
(iii)In Schedule I, in para. III, in sub-para (ii), under the heading “Delay in Dispatch of Allotment Letters or Refund Orders” after the word and sign "closure." and before the words
"The issuer further agrees", the following shall be inserted, namely:-
35A. (1) Every special purpose distinct entity desirous of listing securitised debt instruments on a recognised stock exchange, shall execute an agreement with such stock exchange.
(2)Every special purpose distinct entity which has previously entered into agreements with a recognised stock exchange to list securitised debt instruments shall execute a fresh listing agreement with such stock exchange within six months of the date of notification of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
35B. (1) The issuer shall deposit, before the opening of subscription list, and keep deposited with the stock exchange(s) an amount calculated at the rate of one per cent. of the amount of securities offered for subscription to the public.
(2)The amount stipulated in sub-regulation (1) shall be deposited in the manner specified by Board and/or stock exchange(s)(s).
(3)The amount stipulated in sub-regulation (1) shall be refundable or forfeitable in the manner specified by the Board."
(iii) In regulation 36, sub-regulation (3) shall be substituted with the following, namely:- "(3) In case of a private placement of securitised debt instruments, the special purpose distinct entity shall file listing particulars with the recognised stock exchange, along with the application made under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 35, containing such information as may be necessary for any investor in the secondary market to make an
112
informed investment decision in respect of its securitised debt instruments and the special purpose distinct entity shall promptly disseminate such information, as prescribed, in such manner as the recognised stock exchange(s) may determine from time to time ".
(iv)For regulation 37, the following shall be substituted, namely:-
31B. (1) Every mutual fund desirous of listing units of its schemes on a recognised stock exchange shall execute an agreement with such stock exchange.
(2)Every mutual fund which has previously entered into agreements with a recognised stock exchange to list units of its schemes shall execute a fresh listing agreement with such stock exchange within six months of the date of notification of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015."
1.(1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.
(2)These regulations shall come into force on the thirtieth day from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
(3)These regulations shall apply to direct and indirect acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over target company 1[:]
2[Provided that these regulations shall not apply to direct and indirect acquisition of
1Substituted by the SEBI (Listing of Specified Securities on Institutional Trading Platform) Regulations, 2013, for the full stop.
Page 1 of 69
shares or voting rights in, or control over a company listed without making a public issue, on the institutional trading platform of a recognised stock exchange.]
2.(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions and variations shall be construed accordingly,—
(a)“acquirer” means any person who, directly or indirectly, acquires or agrees to acquire whether by himself, or through, or with persons acting in concert with him, shares or voting rights in, or control over a target company;
(b)“acquisition” means, directly or indirectly, acquiring or agreeing to acquire shares or voting rights in, or control over, a target company;
(c)“Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);
(d)“Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 of the Act;
(e)“control” includes the right to appoint majority of the directors or to control the management or policy decisions exercisable by a person or persons acting individually or in concert, directly or indirectly, including by virtue of their shareholding or management rights or shareholders agreements or voting agreements or in any other manner:
Provided that a director or officer of a target company shall not be considered to be in control over such target company, merely by virtue of holding such position;
(f)“convertible security” means a security which is convertible into or ex- changeable with equity shares of the issuer at a later date, with or without the option of the holder of the security, and includes convertible debt instruments and convertible preference shares;
2Proviso substituted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 14-8-2015. Prior to its substitution, said Proviso, as inserted by the SEBI (Listing of Specified Securities on Institutional Trading Platform) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 8-10-2013, read as under :
“Provided that these regulations shall not apply to direct and indirect acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over a company listed on the institutional trading platform of a recognized stock exchange”
Page 2 of 69
(g)“disinvestment” means the direct or indirect sale by the Central
Government or any State Government or by a government company, as the case may be, of shares or voting rights in, or control over, a target company, which is a public sector undertaking;
(h)“enterprise value” means the value calculated as market capitalization of a company plus debt, minority interest and preferred shares, minus total cash and cash equivalents;
(i)“financial year” means the period of twelve months commencing on the first day of the month of April;
(j)“frequently traded shares” means shares of a target company, in which the traded turnover on any stock exchange during the twelve calendar months preceding the calendar month in which the public announcement 3[is required to be made under these regulations], is at least ten per cent of the total number of shares of such class of the target company:
Provided that where the share capital of a particular class of shares of the target company is not identical throughout such period, the
weighted average number of total shares of such class of the target company shall represent the total number of shares;
4[(ja) “fugitive economic offender” shall mean an individual who is declared a fugitive economic offender under section 12 of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act, 2018 (17 of 2018)]
(k)“identified date” means the date falling on the tenth working day prior to the commencement of the tendering period, for the purposes of determining the shareholders to whom the letter of offer shall be sent;
(l)“immediate relative” means any spouse of a person, and includes parent, brother, sister or child of such person or of the spouse;
(m)“listing agreement” means the agreement with the stock exchange governing the conditions of listing of shares of the target company;
3 Substituted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018. Prior to the amendment, it read as “is made”.
4Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018.
Page 3 of 69
5[(ma) “listing regulations” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.]
(n)“manager to the open offer” means a merchant banker referred to in regulation 12;
(o)“maximum permissible non-public shareholding” means such percentage shareholding in the target company excluding the minimum public shareholding required under the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957;
(p)“offer period” means the period between the date of entering into an agreement, formal or informal, to acquire shares, voting rights in, or control over a target company requiring a public announcement, or the date of the public announcement, as the case may be, and the date on which the payment of consideration to shareholders who have accepted the open offer is made, or the date on which open offer is withdrawn, as the case may be;
(q)“persons acting in concert” means,—
(1)persons who, with a common objective or purpose of acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or exercising control over a target company, pursuant to an agreement or understanding, formal or informal, directly or indirectly co-operate for acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or exercise of control over the target company.
(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, the persons falling within the following categories shall be deemed to be persons acting in concert with other persons within the same category, unless the contrary is established,—
(i)a company, its holding company, subsidiary company and any company under the same management or control;
(ii)a company, its directors, and any person entrusted with the management of the company;
5Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018.
Page 4 of 69
(iii)directors of companies referred to in item (i) and (ii) of this sub-clause and associates of such directors;
(iv)promoters and members of the promoter group;
(v)immediate relatives;
(vi)a mutual fund, its sponsor, trustees, trustee company, and asset management company;
(vii)a collective investment scheme and its collective investment management company, trustees and trustee company;
(viii)a venture capital fund and its sponsor, trustees, trustee company and asset management company;
6[(viiia) an alternative investment fund and its sponsor, trustees, trustee company and manager;]
(ix) 7[***]
(x)a merchant banker and its client, who is an acquirer;
(xi)a portfolio manager and its client, who is an acquirer;
(xii)banks, financial advisors and stock brokers of the acquirer, or of any company which is a holding company or subsidiary of the acquirer, and where the acquirer is an individual, of the immediate relative of such individual:
Provided that this sub-clause shall not apply to a bank whose sole role is that of providing normal commercial banking services or activities in relation to an open offer under these regulations;
(xiii)an investment company or fund and any person who has an interest in such investment company or fund as a shareholder or unitholder having not less than 10 per cent of the paid-up capital of the investment company or unit
6Inserted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 21-5-2012.
7Omitted by the SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 7-1-2014. Prior to its omission, item (ix) read as under :
"(ix)
a foreign institutional investor and its sub-accounts;"
 
Page 5 of 69
capital of the fund, and any other investment company or fund in which such person or his associate holds not less than 10 per cent of the paid-up capital of that investment company or unit capital of that fund:
Provided that nothing contained in this sub-clause shall apply to holding of units of mutual funds registered with the Board;
Explanation.— For the purposes of this clause “associate” of a person means,—
(a)any immediate relative of such person;
(b)trusts of which such person or his immediate relative is a trustee;
(c)partnership firm in which such person or his immediate relative is a partner; and
(d)members of Hindu undivided families of which such person is a coparcener;
(r)8[“postal ballot” means a postal ballot as provided for under Rule 22 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 made under the Companies Act, 2013;]
(s)“promoter” has the same meaning as in the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 and includes a member of the promoter group;
(t)“promoter group” has the same meaning as in the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009;
(u)“public sector undertaking” means a target company in which, directly or indirectly, majority of shares or voting rights or control is held by the Central Government or any State Government or Governments, or partly
8 Substituted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018. Prior to the amendment, the clause read as:
“(r) “postal ballot” means a postal ballot as provided for under the Companies (Passing of the Resolution by Postal Ballot) Rules, 2001 made under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)”
Page 6 of 69
by the Central Government and partly by one or more State Governments;
(v)“shares” means shares in the equity share capital of a target company carrying voting rights, and includes any security which entitles the holder thereof to exercise voting rights;
Explanation.— For the purpose of this clause shares will include all depository receipts carrying an entitlement to exercise voting rights in the target company;
(w)“specified” means as specified by the Board;
(x)“state-level financial institution” means a Financial Corporation established under section 3 or section 3A and institutions notified under section 46 of the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951 (63 of 1951), and includes a development corporation established as a company by a State Government with the object of development of industries or agricultural activities in the state;
(y)“stock exchange” means a stock exchange which has been granted recognition under section 4 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956);
(z)“target company” means a company and includes a body corporate or corporation established under a Central legislation, State legislation or
Provincial legislation for the time being in force, whose shares are listed on a stock exchange;
(za) “tendering period” means the period within which shareholders may tender their shares in acceptance of an open offer to acquire shares made under these regulations;
(zb) “volume weighted average market price” means the product of the number of equity shares traded on a stock exchange and the price of each equity share divided by the total number of equity shares traded on the stock exchange;
Page 7 of 69
(zc) “volume weighted average price” means the product of the number of equity shares bought and price of each such equity share divided by the total number of equity shares bought;
3.(1) No acquirer shall acquire shares or voting rights in a target company which taken together with shares or voting rights, if any, held by him and by persons acting in concert with him in such target company, entitle them to exercise twenty-five per cent or more of the voting rights in such target company unless the acquirer makes a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares of such target company in accordance with these regulations.
9Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 25-05-2016.
10Clause (ze) renumbered as clause “(zf)” by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 25-05-2016.
11Substituted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018. Prior to the amendment, it read as “Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)”.
Page 8 of 69
(2)No acquirer, who together with persons acting in concert with him, has acquired and holds in accordance with these regulations shares or voting rights in a target company entitling them to exercise twenty-five per cent or more of the voting rights in the target company but less than the maximum permissible non-public shareholding, shall acquire within any financial year additional shares or voting rights in such target company entitling them to exercise more than five per cent of the voting rights, unless the acquirer makes a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares of such target company in accordance with these regulations:
Provided that such acquirer shall not be entitled to acquire or enter into any agreement to acquire shares or voting rights exceeding such number of shares as would take the aggregate shareholding pursuant to the acquisition above the maximum permissible non-public shareholding.
12[Provided further that, acquisition pursuant to a resolution plan approved under section 31 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 [No. 31 of 2016] shall be exempt from the obligation under the proviso to the sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3.]
Explanation.— For purposes of determining the quantum of acquisition of additional voting rights under this sub-regulation,—
(i)gross acquisitions alone shall be taken into account regardless of any intermittent fall in shareholding or voting rights whether owing to disposal of shares held or dilution of voting rights owing to fresh issue of shares by the target company.
(ii)in the case of acquisition of shares by way of issue of new shares by the target company or where the target company has made an issue of new shares in any given financial year, the difference between the pre- allotment and the post-allotment percentage voting rights shall be regarded as the quantum of additional acquisition .
12Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 31-05-2018.
Page 9 of 69
(3)For the purposes of sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2), acquisition of shares by any person, such that the individual shareholding of such person acquiring shares exceeds the stipulated thresholds, shall also be attracting the
obligation to make an open offer for acquiring shares of the target company irrespective of whether there is a change in the aggregate shareholding with persons acting in concert.
4.Irrespective of acquisition or holding of shares or voting rights in a target company, no acquirer shall acquire, directly or indirectly, control over such target company unless the acquirer makes a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring
shares of such target company in accordance with these regulations.
5.(1) For the purposes of regulation 3 and regulation 4, acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over, any company or other entity, that would enable any person and persons acting in concert with him to exercise or direct the exercise of such percentage of voting rights in, or control over, a target company, the acquisition of which would otherwise attract the obligation to make a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares under these regulations, shall be considered as an indirect acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company.
(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, in the case of an indirect acquisition attracting the provisions of sub-regulation (1) where,—
(a)the proportionate net asset value of the target company as a percentage of the consolidated net asset value of the entity or business being acquired;
13Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 17-02-2016.
Page 10 of 69
(b)the proportionate sales turnover of the target company as a percentage of the consolidated sales turnover of the entity or business being acquired; or
(c)the proportionate market capitalisation of the target company as a
percentage of the enterprise value for the entity or business being acquired;
is in excess of eighty per cent, on the basis of the most recent audited annual financial statements, such indirect acquisition shall be regarded as a direct acquisition of the target company for all purposes of these regulations including without limitation, the obligations relating to timing, pricing and other compliance requirements for the open offer.
Explanation.— For the purposes of computing the percentage referred to in clause (c) of this sub-regulation, the market capitalisation of the target company shall be taken into account on the basis of the volume-weighted average market price of such shares on the stock exchange for a period of sixty trading days preceding the earlier of, the date on which the primary acquisition is contracted, and the date on which the intention or the decision to make the primary acquisition is announced in the public domain, as traded on the stock exchange where the maximum volume of trading in the shares of the target company are recorded during such period.
5A. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, in the event the acquirer makes a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares of a target company in terms of regulations 3, 4 or 5, he may delist the company in accordance with provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009:
Provided that the acquirer shall have declared upfront his intention to so delist at the time of making the detailed public statement 15[and a subsequent declaration of delisting for the purpose of the offer proposed to be made under sub regulation (1) will not suffice].
(2) Where an offer made under sub-regulation (1) is not successful,-
14Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015.
15Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018.
Page 11 of 69
(i)on account of non–receipt of prior approval of shareholders in terms of clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 8 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; or
(ii)in terms of regulation 17 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; or
(iii)on account of the acquirer rejecting the discovered price determined by the book building process in terms of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 16 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009,
the acquirer shall make an announcement within two working days in respect of such failure in all the newspapers in which the detailed public statement was made and shall comply with all applicable provisions of these regulations.
16[(3) In the event of failure of the delisting offer made under sub-regulation (1), the open offer obligations shall be fulfilled by the acquirer in the following manner:
(i)the acquirer, through the manager to the open offer, shall within five working days from the date of the announcement under sub-regulation (2), file with the Board, a draft of the letter of offer as specified in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 16; and
(ii)shall comply with all other applicable provisions of these regulations.
Provided that the offer price shall stand enhanced by an amount equal to a sum determined at the rate of ten per cent per annum for the period between the scheduled date of payment of consideration to the shareholders and the actual date of payment of consideration to the shareholders.
Explanation: For the purpose of this sub-regulation, scheduled date shall be the date on which the payment of consideration ought to have been made to the shareholders in terms of the timelines in these regulations.]
16 Substituted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018. Prior to this, the sub-regulation read as:
“(3) In the event of the failure of the delisting offer made under sub-regulation (1), the acquirer, through the manager to the open offer, shall within five working days from the date of the announcement under sub- regulation (2), file with the Board, a draft of the letter of offer as specified in sub-regulation (1) of regulation
16 and shall comply with all other applicable provisions of these regulations:
Provided that the offer price shall stand enhanced by an amount equal to a sum determined at the rate of ten per cent per annum for the period between the scheduled date of payment of consideration to the shareholders and the actual date of payment of consideration to the shareholders
Explanation: For the purpose of this sub-regulation, scheduled date shall be the date on which the payment of consideration ought to have been made to the shareholders in terms of the timelines in these regulations.”
Page 12 of 69
(4)Where a competing offer is made in terms of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 20,-
(a)the acquirer shall not be entitled to delist the company;
(b)the acquirer shall not be liable to pay interest to the shareholders on account of delay due to competing offer;
(c)the acquirer shall comply with all the applicable provisions of these regulations and make an announcement in this regard, within two working days from the date of public announcement made in terms of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 20, in all the newspapers in which the detailed public statement was made.
(5)Shareholders who have tendered shares in acceptance of the offer made under sub- regulation (1), shall be entitled to withdraw such shares tendered, within 10 working days from the date of the announcement under sub-regulation (2) .
6.(1) An acquirer, who together with persons acting in concert with him, holds shares or voting rights in a target company entitling them to exercise twenty-five per cent or more but less than the maximum permissible non-public shareholding, shall be entitled to voluntarily make a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares in accordance with these regulations, subject to their aggregate shareholding after completion of the open offer not exceeding the maximum permissible non-public shareholding:
Provided that where an acquirer or any person acting in concert with him has acquired shares of the target company in the preceding fifty-two weeks without attracting the obligation to make a public announcement of an open offer, he shall not be eligible to voluntarily make a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares under this regulation:
Provided further that during the offer period such acquirer shall not be entitled to acquire any shares otherwise than under the open offer.
(2)An acquirer and persons acting in concert with him, who have made a public announcement under this regulation to acquire shares of a target company shall
Page 13 of 69
not be entitled to acquire any shares of the target company for a period of six months after completion of the open offer except pursuant to another voluntary open offer:
Provided that such restriction shall not prohibit the acquirer from making a competing offer upon any other person making an open offer for acquiring shares of the target company.
17[6A. Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, no person who is a wilful defaulter shall make a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares or enter into any transaction that would attract the obligation to make a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares under these regulations:
18[6B. Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, no person who is a fugitive economic offender shall make a public announcement of an open offer or make a competing offer for acquiring shares or enter into any transaction, either directly or indirectly, for acquiring any shares or voting rights or control of a target company.]
7.(1) The open offer for acquiring shares to be made by the acquirer and persons acting in concert with him under regulation 3 and regulation 4 shall be for at least twenty six per cent of total shares of the target company, as of tenth working day from the closure of the tendering period:
Provided that the total shares of the target company as of tenth working day from the closure of the tendering period shall take into account all
17Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 25-05-2016.
18Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018.
Page 14 of 69
potential increases in the number of outstanding shares during the offer period contemplated as of the date of the public announcement:
Provided further that the offer size shall be proportionately increased in case of an increase in total number of shares, after the public announcement, which is not contemplated on the date of the public announcement.
(2)The open offer made under regulation 6 shall be for acquisition of at least such number of shares as would entitle the holder thereof to exercise an additional ten per cent of the 19[voting rights in] the target company, and shall not exceed such number of shares as would result in the post-acquisition holding of the acquirer and persons acting in concert with him exceeding the maximum permissible non- public shareholding applicable to such target company:
Provided that in the event of a competing offer being made, the acquirer who has voluntarily made a public announcement of an open offer under regulation 6 shall be entitled to increase the number of shares for which the open offer has been made to such number of shares as he deems fit:
Provided further that such increase in offer size shall have to be made within a period of fifteen working days from the public announcement of a competing offer, failing which the acquirer shall not be entitled to increase the offer size.
(3)Upon an acquirer opting to increase the offer size under sub-regulation (2), such open offer shall be deemed to have been made under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3 and the provisions of these regulations shall apply accordingly.
(4)In the event the shares accepted in the open offer were such that the shareholding of the acquirer taken together with persons acting in concert with him pursuant to completion of the open offer results in their shareholding exceeding the maximum permissible non-public shareholding, the acquirer shall be required to bring down the non-public shareholding to the level specified and within the time permitted under Securities Contract (Regulation) Rules, 1957.
19 Substituted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018. Prior to this, it read as “total shares of”.
Page 15 of 69
(5)The acquirer whose shareholding exceeds the maximum permissible non-public shareholding, pursuant to an open offer under these regulations, shall not be eligible to make a voluntary delisting offer under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009, unless a period of twelve months has elapsed from the date of the completion of the offer period.
(6)Any open offer made under these regulations shall be made to all shareholders of the target company, other than the acquirer, persons acting in concert with him
and the parties to any underlying agreement including persons deemed to be acting in concert with such parties, for the sale of shares of the target company.
8.(1) The open offer for acquiring shares under regulation 3, regulation 4, regulation 5 or regulation 6 shall be made at a price not lower than the price determined in accordance with sub-regulation (2) or sub-regulation (3), as the case may be.
(2)In the case of direct acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company, and indirect acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company where the parameters referred to in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 5 are met, the offer price shall be the highest of,—
(a)the highest negotiated price per share of the target company for any acquisition under the agreement attracting the obligation to make a public announcement of an open offer;
(b)the volume-weighted average price paid or payable for acquisitions, whether by the acquirer or by any person acting in concert with him, during the fifty-two weeks immediately preceding the date of the public announcement;
(c)the highest price paid or payable for any acquisition, whether by the acquirer or by any person acting in concert with him, during the twenty- six weeks immediately preceding the date of the public announcement;
(d)the volume-weighted average market price of such shares for a period of sixty trading days immediately preceding the date of the public announcement as traded on the stock exchange where the maximum
Page 16 of 69
volume of trading in the shares of the target company are recorded during such period, provided such shares are frequently traded;
(e)where the shares are not frequently traded, the price determined by the acquirer and the manager to the open offer taking into account valuation parameters including, book value, comparable trading multiples, and such other parameters as are customary for valuation of shares of such companies; and
(f)the per share value computed under sub-regulation (5), if applicable.
(3)In the case of an indirect acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company, where the parameter referred to in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 5 are not met, the offer price shall be the highest of,—
(a)the highest negotiated price per share, if any, of the target company for any acquisition under the agreement attracting the obligation to make a public announcement of an open offer;
(b)the volume-weighted average price paid or payable for any acquisition, whether by the acquirer or by any person acting in concert with him, during the fifty-two weeks immediately preceding the earlier of, the date on which the primary acquisition is contracted, and the date on which the intention or the decision to make the primary acquisition is announced in the public domain;
(c)the highest price paid or payable for any acquisition, whether by the acquirer or by any person acting in concert with him, during the twenty-six weeks immediately preceding the earlier of, the date on which the primary acquisition is contracted, and the date on which the intention or the decision to make the primary acquisition is announced in the public domain;
(d)the highest price paid or payable for any acquisition, whether by the acquirer or by any person acting in concert with him, between the earlier of, the date on which the primary acquisition is contracted, and the date on which the intention or the decision to make the primary acquisition is announced in the public domain, and the date of the public announcement of the open offer for shares of the target company made under these regulations;
Page 17 of 69
(e)the volume-weighted average market price of the shares for a period of sixty trading days immediately preceding the earlier of, the date on which the primary acquisition is contracted, and the date on which the intention or the decision to make the primary acquisition is announced in the public domain, as traded on the stock exchange where the maximum volume of trading in the shares of the target company are recorded during such period, provided such shares are frequently traded; and
(f)the per share value computed under sub-regulation (5).
(4)In the event the offer price is incapable of being determined under any of the parameters specified in sub-regulation (3), without prejudice to the requirements of sub-regulation (5), the offer price shall be the fair price of shares of the target company to be determined by the acquirer and the manager to the open offer taking into account valuation parameters including, book value, comparable trading multiples, and such other parameters as are customary for valuation of shares of such companies.
(5)In the case of an indirect acquisition and open offers under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 5 where,—
(a)the proportionate net asset value of the target company as a percentage of the consolidated net asset value of the entity or business being acquired;
(b)the proportionate sales turnover of the target company as a percentage of the consolidated sales turnover of the entity or business being acquired; or
(c)the proportionate market capitalization of the target company as a percentage of the enterprise value for the entity or business being acquired;
is in excess of fifteen per cent, on the basis of the most recent audited annual financial statements, the acquirer shall, notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (2) or sub-regulation (3), be required to compute and disclose, in the letter of offer, the per share value of the target company taken into account for the acquisition, along with a detailed description of the methodology adopted for such computation.
Explanation.— For the purposes of computing the percentages referred to in clause (c) of this sub-regulation, the market capitalisation of the target
Page 18 of 69
company shall be taken into account on the basis of the volume-weighted average market price of such shares on the stock exchange for a period of sixty trading days preceding the earlier of, the date on which the primary acquisition is contracted, and the date on which the intention or the decision to make the primary acquisition is announced in the public domain, as traded on the stock exchange where the maximum volume of trading in the shares of the target company are recorded during such period.
(6)For the purposes of sub-regulation (2) and sub-regulation (3), where the acquirer or any person acting in concert with him has any outstanding convertible instruments convertible into shares of the target company at a specific price, the price at which such instruments are to be converted into shares, shall also be considered as a parameter under sub-regulation (2) and sub-regulation (3).
(7)For the purposes of sub-regulation (2) and sub-regulation (3), the price paid for shares of the target company shall include any price paid or agreed to be paid for the shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company, in any form whatsoever, whether stated in the agreement for acquisition of shares or in any incidental, contemporaneous or collateral agreement, whether termed as control premium or as non-compete fees or otherwise.
(8)Where the acquirer has acquired or agreed to acquire whether by himself or through or with persons acting in concert with him any shares or voting rights in the target company during the offer period, whether by subscription or purchase, at a price higher than the offer price, the offer price shall stand revised to the highest price paid or payable for any such acquisition:
Provided that no such acquisition shall be made after the third working day prior to the commencement of the tendering period and until the expiry of the tendering period.
(9)The price parameters under sub-regulation (2) and sub-regulation (3) may be adjusted by the acquirer in consultation with the manager to the offer, for corporate actions such as issuances pursuant to rights issue, bonus issue, stock consolidations, stock splits, payment of dividend, de-mergers and reduction of capital, where the
Page 19 of 69
record date for effecting such corporate actions falls prior to three working days before the commencement of the tendering period:
Provided that no adjustment shall be made for dividend declared with a record date falling during such period except where the dividend per share is more than fifty per cent higher than the average of the dividend per share paid during the three financial years preceding the date of the public announcement.
(10)Where the acquirer or persons acting in concert with him acquires shares of the target company during the period of twenty-six weeks after the tendering period at a price higher than the offer price under these regulations, the acquirer and persons acting in concert shall pay the difference between the highest acquisition price and the offer price, to all the shareholders whose shares were accepted in the open offer, within sixty days from the date of such acquisition:
Provided that this provision shall not be applicable to acquisitions under another open offer under these regulations or pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009, or open market purchases made in the ordinary course on the stock exchanges, not being negotiated acquisition of shares of the target company whether by way of bulk deals, block deals or in any other form.
(11)Where the open offer is subject to a minimum level of acceptances, the acquirer may, subject to the other provisions of this regulation, indicate a lower price, which will not be less than the price determined under this regulation, for acquiring all the acceptances despite the acceptance falling short of the indicated minimum level of acceptance, in the event the open offer does not receive the minimum acceptance.
(12)In the case of any indirect acquisition, other than the indirect acquisition referred in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 5, the offer price shall stand enhanced by an amount equal to a sum determined at the rate of ten per cent per annum for the period between the earlier of the date on which the primary acquisition is contracted or the date on which the intention or the decision to make the primary acquisition is announced in the public domain, and the date of the detailed public statement, provided such period is more than five working days.
Page 20 of 69
(13)The offer price for partly paid up shares shall be computed as the difference between the offer price and the amount due towards calls-in-arrears including calls remaining unpaid with interest, if any, thereon.
(14)The offer price for equity shares carrying differential voting rights shall be determined by the acquirer and the manager to the open offer with full disclosure of justification for the price so determined, being set out in the detailed public statement and the letter of offer:
Provided that such price shall not be lower than the amount determined by applying the percentage rate of premium, if any, that the offer price for the equity shares carrying full voting rights represents to the price parameter computed under clause (d) of sub-regulation 2, or as the case may be, clause (e) of sub-regulation 3, to the volume-weighted average market price of the shares carrying differential voting rights for a period of sixty trading days computed on the same terms as specified in the aforesaid provisions, subject to shares carrying full voting rights and the shares carrying differential voting rights, both being frequently traded shares.
(15)In the event of any of the price parameters contained in this regulation not being available or denominated in Indian rupees, the conversion of such amount into Indian rupees shall be effected at the exchange rate as prevailing on the date preceding the date of public announcement and the acquirer shall set out the source of such exchange rate in the public announcement, the detailed public statement and the letter of offer.
9.(1) The offer price may be paid, —
(a)in cash;
Page 21 of 69
(b)by issue, exchange or transfer of listed shares in the equity share capital of the acquirer or of any person acting in concert;
(c)by issue, exchange or transfer of listed secured debt instruments issued by the acquirer or any person acting in concert with a rating not inferior to investment grade as rated by a credit rating agency registered with the Board;
(d)by issue, exchange or transfer of convertible debt securities entitling the holder thereof to acquire listed shares in the equity share capital of the acquirer or of any person acting in concert; or
(e)a combination of the mode of payment of consideration stated in clause (a), clause (b), clause (c) and clause (d):
Provided that where any shares have been acquired or agreed to be acquired by the acquirer and persons acting in concert with him during the fifty-two weeks immediately preceding the date of public announcement constitute more than ten per cent of the voting rights in the target company and has been paid for in cash, the open offer shall entail an option to the shareholders to require payment of the offer price in cash, and a shareholder who has not exercised an option in his acceptance shall be deemed to have opted for receiving the offer price in cash:
Provided further that in case of revision in offer price the mode of payment of consideration may be altered subject to the condition that the component of the offer price to be paid in cash prior to such revision is not reduced.
(2)For the purposes of clause (b), clause (d) and clause (e) of sub-regulation (1), the shares sought to be issued or exchanged or transferred or the shares to be issued upon conversion of other securities, towards payment of the offer price, shall conform to the following requirements, —
(a)such class of shares are listed on a stock exchange and frequently traded at the time of the public announcement;
Page 22 of 69
(b)such class of shares have been listed for a period of at least two years preceding the date of the public announcement;
(c)the issuer of such class of shares has redressed at least ninety five per cent. of the complaints received from investors by the end of the calendar quarter immediately preceding the calendar month in which the public announcement is made;
(d)the issuer of such class of shares has been in material compliance with the 20 [listing regulations] for a period of at least two years immediately preceding the date of the public announcement:
Provided that in case where the Board is of the view that a company has not been materially compliant with the provisions of the 21[listing regulations], the offer price shall be paid in cash only;
(e)the impact of auditors’ qualifications, if any, on the audited accounts of the issuer of such shares for three immediately preceding financial years does not exceed five per cent. of the net profit or loss after tax of such issuer for the respective years; and
(f)the Board has not issued any direction against the issuer of such shares not to access the capital market or to issue fresh shares.
(3)Where the shareholders have been provided with options to accept payment in cash or by way of securities, or a combination thereof, the pricing for the open offer may be different for each option subject to compliance with minimum offer price requirements under regulation 8:
Provided that the detailed public statement and the letter of offer shall contain justification for such differential pricing.
(4)In the event the offer price consists of consideration to be paid by issuance of securities, which requires compliance with any applicable law, the acquirer shall ensure that such compliance is completed not later than the commencement of the tendering period:
20Substituted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018. Prior to this, it read as “listing agreement”.
21Ibid
Page 23 of 69
Provided that in case the requisite compliance is not made by such date, the acquirer shall pay the entire consideration in cash.
(5)Where listed securities are offered as consideration, the value of such securities shall be higher of:
(a)the average of the weekly high and low of the closing prices of such securities quoted on the stock exchange during the six months preceding the relevant date;
(b)the average of the weekly high and low of the closing prices of such securities quoted on the stock exchange during the two weeks preceding the relevant date; and
(c)the volume-weighted average market price for a period of sixty trading days preceding the date of the public announcement, as traded on the stock exchange where the maximum volume of trading in the shares of the company whose securities are being offered as consideration, are recorded during the six-month period prior to relevant date and the ratio of exchange of shares shall be duly certified by an independent merchant banker (other than the manager to the open offer) or an independent chartered accountant having a minimum experience of ten years.
Explanation.— For the purposes of this sub-regulation, the “relevant date” shall be the thirtieth day prior to the date on which the meeting of shareholders is held to consider the proposed issue of shares under sub- section (1A) of Section 81 of the 22[Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)].
10.(1) The following acquisitions shall be exempt from the obligation to make an open offer under regulation 3 and regulation 4 subject to fulfillment of the conditions stipulated therefor,—
(a)acquisition pursuant to inter se transfer of shares amongst qualifying persons, being,—
22Substituted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018. Prior to this, it read as “Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)”.
Page 24 of 69
(i)immediate relatives;
(ii)persons named as promoters in the shareholding pattern filed by the target company in terms of the 23[listing regulations or as the case may be, the listing agreement] or these regulations for not less than three years prior to the proposed acquisition;
(iii)a company, its subsidiaries, its holding company, other subsidiaries of such holding company, persons holding not less than fifty per cent of the equity shares of such company, other companies in which such persons hold not less than fifty per cent of the equity shares, and their subsidiaries subject to control over such qualifying persons being exclusively held by the same persons;
24[Explanation: For the purpose of this sub-clause, the company shall include a body corporate, whether Indian or foreign.]
(iv)persons acting in concert for not less than three years prior to the proposed acquisition, and disclosed as such pursuant to filings under the 25[listing regulations or as the case may be, the listing agreement];
(v)shareholders of a target company who have been persons acting in concert for a period of not less than three years prior to the proposed acquisition and are disclosed as such pursuant to filings under the 26[listing regulations or as the case may be, the listing agreement], and any company in which the entire equity share capital is owned by such shareholders in the same proportion as their holdings in the target company without any differential entitlement to exercise voting rights in such company:
23 Substituted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018. Prior to this, it read as “listing agreement”.
24Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018.
25Substituted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018. Prior to this, it read as “listing agreement”.
26Ibid
Page 25 of 69
Provided that for purposes of availing of the exemption under this clause,—
(i)If the shares of the target company are frequently traded, the acquisition price per share shall not be higher by more than twenty-five per cent of the volume-weighted average market price for a period of sixty trading days preceding the date of issuance of notice for the proposed inter se transfer under sub-regulation (5), as traded on the stock exchange where the maximum volume of trading in the shares of the target company are recorded during such period, and if the shares of the target company are infrequently traded, the acquisition price shall not be higher by more than twenty-five percent of the price determined in terms of clause (e) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 8; and
(ii)the transferor and the transferee shall have complied with applicable disclosure requirements set out in Chapter V.
(b)acquisition in the ordinary course of business by,—
(i)an underwriter registered with the Board by way of allotment pursuant to an underwriting agreement in terms of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009;
(ii)a stock broker registered with the Board on behalf of his client in exercise of lien over the shares purchased on behalf of the client under the bye-laws of the stock exchange where such stock broker is a member;
(iii)a merchant banker registered with the Board or a nominated investor in the process of market making or subscription to the unsubscribed portion of issue in terms of Chapter XB of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009;
Page 26 of 69
(iv)any person acquiring shares pursuant to a scheme of safety net in terms of regulation 44 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009;
(v)a merchant banker registered with the Board acting as a stabilising agent or by the promoter or pre-issue shareholder in terms of regulation 45 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009;
(vi)by a registered market-maker of a stock exchange in respect of shares for which he is the market maker during the course of market making;
(vii)a Scheduled Commercial Bank, acting as an escrow agent; and
(viii)invocation of pledge by Scheduled Commercial Banks or Public Financial Institutions as a pledgee.
(c)acquisitions at subsequent stages, by an acquirer who has made a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares pursuant to an agreement of disinvestment, as contemplated in such agreement:
Provided that,—
(i)both the acquirer and the seller are the same at all the stages of acquisition; and
(ii)full disclosures of all the subsequent stages of acquisition, if any, have been made in the public announcement of the open offer and in the letter of offer.
(d)acquisition pursuant to a scheme,—
(i)made under section 18 of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 (1 of 1986) or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto;
(ii)of arrangement involving the target company as a transferor company or as a transferee company, or reconstruction of the target company, including amalgamation, merger or demerger,
Page 27 of 69
pursuant to an order of a court [or a tribunal]27 [***]28under any law or regulation, Indian or foreign; or
(iii)of arrangement not directly involving the target company as a transferor company or as a transferee company, or reconstruction not involving the target company’s undertaking, including amalgamation, merger or demerger, pursuant to an order of a court 29 [or a tribunal] or [***]30 under any law or regulation, Indian or foreign, subject to,—
(A)the component of cash and cash equivalents in the consideration paid being less than twenty-five per cent of the consideration paid under the scheme; and
(B)where after implementation of the scheme of arrangement, persons directly or indirectly holding at least thirty-three per cent of the voting rights in the combined entity are the same as the persons who held the entire voting rights before the implementation of the
scheme.
31[(da) acquisition pursuant to a resolution plan approved under section 31 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (31 of 2016);]
(e)acquisition pursuant to the provisions of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (54 of 2002);
(f)acquisition pursuant to the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009;
(g)acquisition by way of transmission, succession or inheritance;
27Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f 14.8.2017.
28Words “or a competent authority” omitted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f 29.03.2019.
29Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f 14.8.2017.
30Words “or a competent authority” omitted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f 29.03.2019.
31Inserted ibid.
Page 28 of 69
(h)acquisition of voting rights or preference shares carrying voting rights arising out of the operation of 32 [sub-section (2) of section 47 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)].
Acquisition of shares by the lenders pursuant to conversion of their debt as part of a debt restructuring [***]34 implemented in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Reserve Bank of India:
[Provided that the conditions specified under sub-regulation (6) of regulation 158 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 are complied with]35]
[Explanation. – For the purpose of this clause, “lenders” shall mean all scheduled commercial banks (excluding Regional Rural Banks) and All India Financial Institutions]36
37[(ia) [***]38]
32 Substituted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018. Prior to this, it read as “sub-section (2) of section 87 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)”.
33Substituted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f 14.8.2017. Prior to the substitution, clause (i), inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 05-05-2015, read as follows:
“Conversion of debt into equity under Strategic Debt Restructuring Scheme - Acquisition of equity shares by the consortium of banks, financial institutions and other secured lenders pursuant to conversion of their debt as part of the Strategic Debt Restructuring Scheme in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Reserve Bank of India:
Provided that the conditions specified under sub-regulation (5) or (6) of regulation 70 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009, as may be applicable, are complied with.”
34The word “scheme” omitted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f 29.03.2019.
35Substituted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f 29.03.2019. Prior to its substitution, the proviso read as follows,-
“Provided that the conditions specified under sub-regulation (5) of regulation 70 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 are complied with.”
36Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f 29.03.2019.
37Inserted ibid.
38Omitted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f 29.03.2019. Prior to its omission, clause (ia) read as follows,-
“Acquisition of shares by the person(s), by way of allotment by the target company or purchase
from the lenders at the time of lenders selling their shareholding or enforcing change in ownership Page 29 of 69
39[(j) increase in voting rights arising out of the operation of sub-section (1) of section 106 of the Companies Act, 2013 or pursuant to a forfeiture of shares by the target company, undertaken in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and its articles of association.]
(2) [***]40
in favour of such person(s), pursuant to a debt restructuring scheme implemented in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Reserve Bank of India:
Provided that in respect of acquisition by persons by way of allotment by the target company, the conditions specified under sub-regulation (6) of regulation 70 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 are complied with:
Provided further that in respect of acquisition by way of purchase of shares from the lenders, the acquisition shall be exempted subject to the compliance with the following conditions:
(a)the guidelines for determining the purchase price have been specified by the Reserve Bank of India and that the purchase price has been determined in accordance with such guidelines;
(b)the purchase price shall be certified by two independent qualified valuers, and for this purpose ‘valuer’ shall be a person who is registered under section 247 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the relevant Rules framed thereunder:
Provided that till such date on which section 247 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the relevant Rules come into force, valuer shall mean an independent merchant banker registered with the Board or an independent chartered accountant in practice having a minimum experience of ten years;
(c)the specified securities so purchased shall be locked-in for a period of at least three years from the date of purchase;
(d)the lock-in of equity shares acquired pursuant to conversion of convertible securities purchased from the lenders shall be reduced to the extent the convertible securities have already been locked-in;
(e)a special resolution has been passed by shareholders of the issuer before the purchase;
(f)the issuer shall, in addition to the disclosures required under the Companies Act, 2013 or any other applicable law, disclose the following information pertaining to the proposed acquirer(s) in the explanatory statement to the notice for the general meeting proposed for passing special resolution as stipulated at clause (e) of this sub-regulation:
a.the identity including of the natural persons who are the ultimate beneficial owners of the shares proposed to be purchased and/ or who ultimately control the proposed acquirer(s);
b.the business model;
c.a statement on growth of business over the period of time;
d.summary of audited financials of previous three financial years;
e.track record in turning around companies, if any;
f.the proposed roadmap for effecting turnaround of the issuer;
g.applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 are complied with.”
39Inserted by the SEBI(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 22-12-2015.
40Omitted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f 29.03.2019. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (2) read as follows,-
“The acquisition of shares of a target company, not involving a change of control over such target company, pursuant to a scheme of corporate debt restructuring in terms of the Corporate Debt Restructuring Scheme notified by the Reserve Bank of India vide circular no. B.P.BC 15/21.04,
114/2001 dated August 23, 2001, or any modification or re-notification thereto provided such Page 30 of 69
41[(2A) An increase in the voting rights of any shareholder beyond the threshold limits stipulated in sub-regulations (1) and (2) of regulation 3, without the acquisition of control, pursuant to the conversion of equity shares with superior voting rights into ordinary equity shares, shall be exempted from the obligation to make an open offer under regulation 3.]
(3)An increase in voting rights in a target company of any shareholder beyond the limit attracting an obligation to make an open offer under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 3, pursuant to buy-back of shares 42[by the target company] shall be exempt from the obligation to make an open offer provided such shareholder reduces his shareholding such that his voting rights fall to below the threshold referred to in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 3 within ninety days from the date 43[of the closure of the said buy-back offer].
(4)The following acquisitions shall be exempt from the obligation to make an open offer under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3,—
(a)acquisition of shares by any shareholder of a target company, upto his entitlement, pursuant to a rights issue;
(b)acquisition of shares by any shareholder of a target company, beyond his entitlement, pursuant to a rights issue, subject to fulfillment of the following conditions,—
(i)the acquirer has not renounced any of his entitlements in such rights issue; and
(ii)the price at which the rights issue is made is not higher than the ex-rights price of the shares of the target company, being the sum of,—
(A)the volume weighted average market price of the shares of the target company during a period of sixty trading days ending on the day prior to the date of determination of the rights issue price, multiplied
scheme has been authorised by shareholders by way of a special resolution passed by postal ballot, shall be exempted from the obligation to make an open offer under regulation 3”
41Inserted by the SEBI(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 29-07-2019.
42Inserted by the SEBI(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 26-03-2013.
43Substituted for “on which the voting rights so increase” by the SEBI(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and
Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 26-03-2013.
Page 31 of 69
by the number of shares outstanding prior to the rights issue, divided by the total number of shares outstanding after allotment under the rights issue:
Provided that such volume weighted average market price shall be determined on the basis of trading on the stock exchange where the maximum volume of trading in the shares of such target company is recorded during such period; and
(B)the price at which the shares are offered in the rights issue, multiplied by the number of shares so offered in the rights issue divided by the total number of shares outstanding after allotment under the rights issue:
(c)increase in voting rights in a target company of any shareholder pursuant to buy-back of shares:
Provided that,—
(i)such shareholder has not voted in favour of the resolution authorising the buy-back of securities under 44[section 68 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)];
(ii)in the case of a shareholder resolution, voting is by way of postal ballot;
(iii)where a resolution of shareholders is not required for the buy- back, such shareholder, in his capacity as a director, or any other interested director has not voted in favour of the resolution of the board of directors of the target company authorising the buy-back of securities under 45 [section 68 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)]; and
44 Substituted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018. Prior to this, it read as “section 77A of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).”
45 Substituted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018. Prior to this, it read as “section 77A of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).”
Page 32 of 69
(iv)the increase in voting rights does not result in an acquisition of control by such shareholder over the target company:
Provided further that where the aforesaid conditions are not
met, in the event such shareholder reduces his shareholding such that his voting rights fall below the level at which the obligation to make an open offer would be attracted under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3, within ninety days from the date 46[of closure of the buy-back offer by the target company], the shareholder shall be exempt from the obligation to make an open offer;
(d)acquisition of shares in a target company by any person in exchange for shares of another target company tendered pursuant to an open offer for acquiring shares under these regulations;
(e)acquisition of shares in a target company from state-level financial institutions or their subsidiaries or companies promoted by them, by promoters of the target company pursuant to an agreement between such transferors and such promoter;
(f)acquisition of shares in a target company from a venture capital fund 47 [or category I Alternative Investment Fund] or a foreign venture capital investor registered with the Board, by promoters of the target company pursuant to an agreement between such venture capital fund 48 [or category I Alternative Investment Fund] or foreign venture capital investor and such promoters.
(5)In respect of acquisitions under clause (a) of sub-regulation (1), and clauses (e) and (f) of sub-regulation (4), the acquirer shall intimate the stock exchanges where the shares of the target company are listed, the details of the proposed acquisition in such form as may be specified, at least four working days prior to the proposed acquisition, and the stock exchange shall forthwith disseminate such information to the public.
(6)In respect of any acquisition made pursuant to exemption provided for in this regulation, the acquirer shall file a report with the stock exchanges where the shares
46Substituted for “on which the voting rights so increase” by the SEBI(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and
Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 26-03-2013.
47Inserted by the SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f 21-05-2012.
48Ibid.
Page 33 of 69
11.(1) The Board may for reasons recorded in writing, grant exemption from the obligation to make an open offer for acquiring shares under these regulations subject to such conditions as the Board deems fit to impose in the interests of investors in securities and the securities market.
(2)The Board may for reasons recorded in writing, grant a relaxation from strict compliance with any procedural requirement under Chapter III and Chapter IV subject to such conditions as the Board deems fit to impose in the interests of investors in securities and the securities market on being satisfied that,—
(a)the target company is a company in respect of which the Central Government or State Government or any other regulatory authority has
49Substituted by the SEBI (Payment of fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e.f. 23-05-2014, for the words “twenty five thousand”
50Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 6-3-2017.
Page 34 of 69
superseded the board of directors of the target company and has appointed new directors under any law for the time being in force, if,—
(i)such board of directors has formulated a plan which provides for transparent, open, and competitive process for acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company to secure the smooth and continued operation of the target company in the interests of all stakeholders of the target company and such plan does not further the interests of any particular acquirer;
(ii)the conditions and requirements of the competitive process are reasonable and fair;
(iii)the process adopted by the board of directors of the target company provides for details including the time when the open offer for acquiring shares would be made, completed and the manner in which the change in control would be effected; and
(b)the provisions of Chapter III and Chapter IV are likely to act as impediment to implementation of the plan of the target company and exemption from strict compliance with one or more of such provisions is in public interest, the interests of investors in securities and the securities market.
(3)For seeking exemption under sub-regulation (1), the acquirer shall, and for seeking relaxation under sub-regulation (2) the target company shall file an application with the Board, supported by a duly sworn affidavit, giving details of the proposed acquisition and the grounds on which the exemption has been sought.
(4)The acquirer or the target company, as the case may be, shall along with the application referred to under sub-regulation (3) pay a non-refundable fee of rupees 51 [five lakh], 52 [by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or] by way of a banker’s cheque or demand draft payable in Mumbai in favour of the Board.
51Substituted for the words “three lakh” by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 6-3-2017. Prior to that, the SEBI (Payment of fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e.f. 23-05-2014 had substituted the words “fifty thousand” by the words “three lakh”.
52Ibid.
Page 35 of 69
12. (1) Prior to making a public announcement, the acquirer shall appoint a merchant banker registered with the Board, who is not an associate of the acquirer, as the manager to the open offer.
Explanation.— For the purposes of this regulation the term “associate” has the same meaning as in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992.
(2)The public announcement of the open offer for acquiring shares required under these regulations shall be made by the acquirer through such manager to the
open offer.
13. (1) The public announcement referred to in regulation 3 and regulation 4 shall be made in accordance with regulation 14 and regulation 15, on the date of agreeing to acquire shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company.
(2)Such public announcement,—
Page 36 of 69
(a)in the case of market purchases, shall be made prior to placement of the purchase order with the stock broker to acquire the shares, that would take the entitlement to voting rights beyond the stipulated thresholds;
(b)pursuant to an acquirer acquiring shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company upon converting convertible securities without a fixed date of conversion or upon conversion of depository receipts for the underlying shares of the target company shall be made on the same day as the date of exercise of the option to convert such
securities into shares of the target company;
(c)pursuant to an acquirer acquiring shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company upon conversion of convertible securities with a fixed date of conversion shall be made on the second working day preceding the scheduled date of conversion of such securities into shares of the target company;
(d)pursuant to a disinvestment shall be made on the same day as the date of executing the agreement for acquisition of shares or voting rights in or control over the target company;
(e)in the case of indirect acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company where none of the parameters referred to in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 5 are met, may be made at any time within four working days from the earlier of, the date on which the primary acquisition is contracted, and the date on which the intention or the decision to make the primary acquisition is announced in the public domain;
(f)in the case of indirect acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company where any of the parameters referred to in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 5 are met shall be made on the earlier of, the date on which the primary acquisition is contracted, and the date on which the intention or the decision to make the primary acquisition is announced in the public domain;
Page 37 of 69
(g)pursuant to an acquirer acquiring shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company, under preferential issue, shall be made on the date on which 53 [the board of directors of the target company authorises such preferential issue.];
(h)the public announcement pursuant to an increase in voting rights consequential to a buy-back not qualifying for exemption under regulation 10, shall be made not later than the ninetieth day from the date of 54[closure of the buy-back offer by the target company].;
(i)the public announcement pursuant to any acquisition of shares or voting rights in or control over the target company where the specific date on which title to such shares, voting rights or control is acquired is beyond the control of the acquirer, shall be made not later than two working days from the date of receipt of intimation of having
acquired such title.
55[(2A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (2), a public announcement referred to in regulation 3 and regulation 4 for a proposed acquisition of shares or voting rights in or control over the target company through a combination of,-
(i)an agreement and any one or more modes of acquisition referred to in sub- regulation (2) of regulation 13, or
(ii)any one or more modes of acquisition referred in clause (a) to (i) of sub-
regulation (2) of regulation 13,
shall be made on the date of first such acquisition, provided the acquirer discloses in the public announcement the details of the proposed subsequent acquisition.]
(3)The public announcement made under regulation 6 shall be made on the same day as the date on which the acquirer takes the decision to voluntarily make a
53Substituted for “special resolution is passed for allotment of shares under sub-section (1A) of section 81 of the Companies Act, 1956” by the SEBI(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 26-03-2013.
54Substituted for “such increase in the voting rights beyond the relevant threshold stipulated in regulation 3” by the SEBI(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 26-03- 2013.
55Inserted by the SEBI(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 26-03-2013.
Page 38 of 69
public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares of the target company.
(4)Pursuant to the public announcement made under sub-regulation (1) and sub- regulation (3), a detailed public statement shall be published by the acquirer through the manager to the open offer in accordance with regulation 14 and regulation 15, not later than five working days of the public announcement:
Provided that the detailed public statement pursuant to a public announcement made under clause (e) of sub-regulation (2) shall be made not later than five working days of the completion of the primary acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over the company or entity holding shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company.
14.(1) The public announcement shall be sent to all the stock exchanges on which the shares of the target company are listed, and the stock exchanges shall forthwith disseminate such information to the public.
(2)A copy of the public announcement shall be sent to the Board and to the target company at its registered office within one working day of the date of the public announcement.
(3)The detailed public statement pursuant to the public announcement referred to in sub-regulation (4) of regulation 13 shall be published in all editions of any one English national daily with wide circulation, any one Hindi national daily with wide circulation, and any one regional language daily with wide circulation at the place where the registered office of the target company is situated and one regional language daily at the place of the stock exchange where the maximum volume of trading in the shares of the target company are recorded during the sixty trading days preceding the date of the public announcement.
Page 39 of 69
(4)Simultaneously with publication of such detailed public statement in the newspapers, a copy of the same shall be sent to,—
(i)the Board through the manager to the open offer,
(ii)all the stock exchanges on which the shares of the target company are listed, and the stock exchanges shall forthwith disseminate such information to the public,
(iii)the target company at its registered office, and the target company shall forthwith circulate it to the members of its board.
15.(1) The public announcement shall contain such information as may be specified, including the following,—
(a)name and identity of the acquirer and persons acting in concert with him;
(b)name and identity of the sellers, if any;
(c)nature of the proposed acquisition such as purchase of shares or allotment of shares, or any other means of acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company;
(d)the consideration for the proposed acquisition that attracted the obligation to make an open offer for acquiring shares, and the price per share, if any;
(e)the offer price, and mode of payment of consideration; and
(f)offer size, and conditions as to minimum level of acceptances, if any.
(2)The detailed public statement pursuant to the public announcement shall contain such information as may be specified in order to enable shareholders to make an informed decision with reference to the open offer.
(3)The public announcement of the open offer, the detailed public statement, and any other statement, advertisement, circular, brochure, publicity material or letter of offer issued in relation to the acquisition of shares under these regulations shall not omit any relevant information, or contain any misleading
information.
Filing of letter of offer with the Board.
16.(1) Within five working days from the date of the detailed public statement made under sub-regulation (4) of regulation 13, the acquirer shall, through the manager to the open offer, file with the Board, a draft of the letter of offer containing such information as may be specified along with a non-refundable fee, as per the following scale, 56[by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or] by way of a banker’s cheque or demand draft payable in Mumbai in favour of the Board,—
57[
 
Sl.
Consideration
payable
Fee (Rs.)
 
No.
under the Open Offer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a.
Upto ten crore rupees.
 
Five lakh rupees (Rs. 5,00,000)
 
 
 
 
 
 
b.
0.5 per cent of the offer size
 
 
but less than or equal to one
 
 
 
thousand crore rupees.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
c.
More than one thousand crore
Five crore rupees (Rs. 5,00,00,000)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
56 Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 6-3-2017.
57Substituted by the SEBI (Payment of fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e.f. 23-05-2014. Prior to its substitution, the table in sub-regulation (1), read as under,
“
Sl.
Consideration payable under the
Fee (Rs.)
No.
Open Offer
 
a.
Upto ten crore rupees.
One lakh twenty five thousands rupees (
 
 
1,25,000)
b.
More than ten crore rupees, but less
One lakh twenty five thousands rupees (
 
than or equal to one thousand crore
1,25,000) plus 0.025 per cent of the portion
 
rupees.
of the offer size in excess of ten crore
 
 
rupees ( 10,00,00,000).
c.
More than one thousand crore
One crore twenty five lakh rupees (
 
rupees, but less than or equal to five
1,25,00,000) plus 0.03125 per cent of the
 
thousand crore rupees.
portion of the offer size in excess of one
 
 
thousand crore rupees ( 1000,00,00,000).
d.
More than five thousand crore
Two crore fifty lakh rupees ( 2,50,00,000)
 
rupees.
plus 0.01 per cent of the portion of the offer
 
 
size in excess of five thousand crore rupees
 
 
( 5000,00,00,000), subject to a maximum
 
 
of three crore rupees ( 3,00,00,000).
 
 
“.
 
Page 41 of 69
 
 
rupees.
plus 0.125 per cent of the portion of
 
 
the offer size in excess of one
 
 
thousand
crore
rupees
 
 
(1000,00,00,000).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
]
(2)The consideration payable under the open offer shall be calculated at the offer price, assuming full acceptance of the open offer, and in the event the open offer is subject to differential pricing, shall be computed at the highest offer price, irrespective of manner of payment of the consideration:
Provided that in the event of consideration payable under the open offer being enhanced owing to a revision to the offer price or offer size the fees payable shall stand revised accordingly, and shall be paid within five working days from the date of such revision.
(3)The manager to the open offer shall provide soft copies of the public announcement, the detailed public statement and the draft letter of offer in accordance with such specifications as may be specified, and the Board shall upload the same on its website.
(4)The Board shall give its comments on the draft letter of offer as expeditiously as possible but not later than fifteen working days of the receipt of the draft letter of offer and in the event of no comments being issued by the Board within such period, it shall be deemed that the Board does not have comments to offer:
Provided that in the event the Board has sought clarifications or additional information from the manager to the open offer, the period for issuance of comments shall be extended to the fifth working day from the date of receipt of satisfactory reply to the clarification or additional information sought.
Page 42 of 69
Provided further that in the event the Board specifies any changes, the manager to the open offer and the acquirer shall carry out such changes in the letter of offer before it is dispatched to the shareholders.
(5)In the case of competing offers, the Board shall provide its comments on the draft letter of offer in respect of each competing offer on the same day.
(6)In the event the disclosures in the draft letter of offer are inadequate the Board may call for a revised letter of offer and shall deal with the revised letter of offer in
accordance with sub-regulation (4).
17.(1) Not later than two working days prior to the date of the detailed public statement of the open offer for acquiring shares, the acquirer shall create an escrow account towards security for performance of his obligations under these regulations, and deposit in escrow account such aggregate amount as per the following scale:
Sl.
Consideration payable under
Escrow Amount
No.
the Open Offer
 
 
 
 
a.
On the first five hundred crore
an amount equal to twenty-five per cent of
 
rupees
the consideration
 
 
 
b.
On the balance consideration
an additional amount equal to ten per cent
 
 
of the balance consideration
 
 
 
Provided that where an open offer is made conditional upon minimum level of acceptance, hundred percent of the consideration payable in respect of minimum level of acceptance or fifty per cent of the consideration payable under the open offer, whichever is higher, shall be deposited in cash in the escrow account.
(2)The consideration payable under the open offer shall be computed as provided for in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 16 and in the event of an upward revision of the offer price or of the offer size, the value of the escrow amount shall be computed on the revised consideration calculated at such revised offer price, and the additional amount shall be brought into the escrow account prior to effecting such revision.
(3)The escrow account referred to in sub-regulation (1) may be in the form of,—
(a)cash deposited with any scheduled commercial bank;
Page 43 of 69
(b)bank guarantee issued in favour of the manager to the open offer by any scheduled commercial bank; or
(c)deposit of frequently traded and freely transferable equity shares or other freely transferable securities with appropriate margin:
Provided that securities sought to be provided towards escrow account under clause (c) shall be required to conform to the requirements set out in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 9.
58[Explanation: The cash component of the escrow account as referred to in clause (a) above may be maintained in an interest bearing account, subject to the merchant banker ensuring that the funds are available at the time of making payment to the shareholders.]
(4)In the event of the escrow account being created by way of a bank guarantee or by deposit of securities, the acquirer shall also ensure that at least one per cent of the total consideration payable is deposited in cash with a scheduled commercial bank as a part of the escrow account.
(5)For such part of the escrow account as is in the form of a cash deposit with a scheduled commercial bank, the acquirer shall while opening the account, empower the manager to the open offer to instruct the bank to issue a banker’s cheque or demand draft or to make payment of the amounts lying to the credit of the escrow account, in accordance with requirements under these regulations.
(6)For such part of the escrow account as is in the form of a bank guarantee, such bank guarantee shall be in favour of the manager to the open offer and shall be kept valid throughout the offer period and for an additional period of thirty days after completion of payment of consideration to shareholders who have tendered their shares in acceptance of the open offer.
(7)For such part of the escrow account as is in the form of securities, the acquirer shall empower the manager to the open offer to realise the value of such escrow account by sale or otherwise, and in the event there is any shortfall in the amount required to be
58Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018.
Page 44 of 69
maintained in the escrow account, the manager to the open offer shall be liable to make good such shortfall.
(8)The manager to the open offer shall not release the escrow account until the expiry of thirty days from the completion of payment of consideration to shareholders who have tendered their shares in acceptance of the open offer, save and except for transfer of funds to the special escrow account as required under regulation 21.
(9)In the event of non-fulfillment of obligations under these regulations by the acquirer the Board may direct the manager to the open offer to forfeit the escrow account or any amounts lying in the special escrow account, either in full or in part.
(10)The escrow account deposited with the bank in cash shall be released only in the following manner,—
(a)the entire amount to the acquirer upon withdrawal of offer in terms of regulation
23 as certified by the manager to the open offer:
Provided that in the event the withdrawal is pursuant to clause (c) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 23, the manager to the open offer shall release the escrow account upon receipt of confirmation of such release from the Board;
(b)for transfer of an amount not exceeding ninety per cent of the escrow account, to the special escrow account in accordance with regulation 21;
(c)to the acquirer, the balance of the escrow account after transfer of cash to the special escrow account, on the expiry of thirty days from the completion of payment of consideration to shareholders who have tendered their shares in acceptance of the open offer, as certified by the manager to the open offer;
(d)the entire amount to the acquirer upon the expiry of thirty days from the completion of payment of consideration to shareholders who have tendered their shares in acceptance of the open offer, upon certification by the manager to the open offer, where the open offer is for exchange of shares or other secured instruments;
(e)the entire amount to the manager to the open offer, in the event of forfeiture for non-fulfillment of any of the obligations under these regulations, for distribution in the following manner, after deduction of expenses, if any, of registered market intermediaries associated with the open offer,—
Page 45 of 69
(i)one third of the escrow account to the target company;
(ii)one third of the escrow account to the Investor Protection and Education Fund established under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection and Education Fund) Regulations, 2009; and
(iii)one third of the escrow account to be distributed pro-rata among the shareholders who have accepted the open offer.
18.(1) Simultaneously with the filing of the draft letter of offer with the Board under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 16, the acquirer shall send a copy of the draft letter of offer to the target company at its registered office address and to all stock exchanges where the shares of the target company are listed.
(2)The letter of offer shall be dispatched to the shareholders whose names appear on the register of members of the target company as of the identified date, not later than seven working days from the receipt of comments from the Board or where no comments are offered by the Board, within seven working days from the expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (4) of regulation 16:
59[Explanation: (i) Letter of offer may also be dispatched through electronic mode in accordance with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013.
(ii)On receipt of a request from any shareholder to receive a copy of the letter of offer in physical format, the same shall be provided.
(iii)The aforesaid shall be disclosed in the letter of offer.]
Provided that where local laws or regulations of any jurisdiction outside India may expose the acquirer or the target company to material risk of civil, regulatory or criminal liabilities in the event the letter of offer in its final form were to be sent without material amendments or modifications into such jurisdiction, and the shareholders resident in such jurisdiction hold shares entitling them to less than five per cent of the voting rights of the target
59Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018.
Page 46 of 69
company, the acquirer may refrain from dispatch of the letter of offer into such jurisdiction:
Provided further that every person holding shares, regardless of whether he held shares on the identified date or has not received the letter of offer, shall be entitled to tender such shares in acceptance of the open offer.
(3)Simultaneously with the dispatch of the letter of offer in terms of sub-regulation (2), the acquirer shall send the letter of offer to the custodian of shares underlying depository receipts, if any, of the target company.
(4)Irrespective of whether a competing offer has been made, an acquirer may make upward revisions to the offer price, and subject to the other provisions of these regulations, to the number of shares sought to be acquired under the open offer, at any time prior to the commencement of the last 60[one working day] before the commencement of the tendering period.
(5)In the event of any revision of the open offer, whether by way of an upward revision in offer price, or of the offer size, the acquirer shall,—
(a)make corresponding increases to the amount kept in escrow account under regulation 17 prior to such revision;
(b)make an announcement in respect of such revisions in all the newspapers in which the detailed public statement pursuant to the public announcement was made; and
(c)simultaneously with the issue of such an announcement, inform the Board, all the stock exchanges on which the shares of the target company are listed, and the target company at its registered office.
(6)The acquirer shall disclose during the offer period every acquisition made by the acquirer or persons acting in concert with him of any shares of the target company in such form as may be specified, to each of the stock exchanges on which the shares of the target company are listed and to the target company at its registered office within twenty-four hours of such acquisition, and the stock exchanges shall forthwith disseminate such information to the public:
60 Substituted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018. Prior to this, it read as “three working days”.
Page 47 of 69
Provided that the acquirer and persons acting in concert with him shall not acquire or sell any shares of the target company during the period between three working days prior to the commencement of the tendering period and until the expiry of the tendering period.
61[(6A) The acquirer shall facilitate tendering of shares by the shareholders and settlement of the same, through the stock exchange mechanism as specified by the Board.]
(7)The acquirer shall issue an advertisement in such form as may be specified, one working day before the commencement of the tendering period, announcing the schedule of activities for the open offer, the status of statutory and other approvals, if any, whether for the acquisition attracting the obligation to make an open offer under these regulations or for the open offer, unfulfilled conditions, if any, and their status, the procedure for tendering acceptances and such other material detail as may be specified:
Provided that such advertisement shall be,—
(a)published in all the newspapers in which the detailed public statement pursuant to the public announcement was made; and
(b)simultaneously sent to the Board, all the stock exchanges on which the shares of the target company are listed, and the target company at its registered office.
(8)The tendering period shall start not later than twelve working days from date of receipt of comments from the Board under sub-regulation (4) of regulation 16 and shall remain open for ten working days.
(9)Shareholders who have tendered shares in acceptance of the open offer shall not be entitled to withdraw such acceptance during the tendering period.
(10)The acquirer shall, within ten working days from the last date of the tendering period, complete all requirements under these regulations and other applicable law relating to the open offer including payment of consideration to the shareholders who have accepted the open offer.
61Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015.
Page 48 of 69
(11)The acquirer shall be responsible to pursue all statutory approvals required by the acquirer in order to complete the open offer without any default, neglect or delay:
Provided that where the acquirer is unable to make the payment to the shareholders who have accepted the open offer within such period owing to non-receipt of statutory approvals required by the acquirer, the Board may, where it is satisfied that such non-receipt was not attributable to any willful default, failure or neglect on the part of the acquirer to diligently pursue such approvals, grant extension of time for making payments, subject to the acquirer agreeing to pay interest to the shareholders for the delay at such rate as may be specified:
Provided further that where the statutory approval extends to some but not all shareholders, the acquirer shall have the option to make payment to such shareholders in respect of whom no statutory approvals are required in order to complete the open offer.
(12)(a) The acquirer shall issue a post offer advertisement in such form as may be
specified within five working days after the offer period, giving details including aggregate number of shares tendered, accepted, date of payment of consideration.
(b)Such advertisement shall be,—
(i)published in all the newspapers in which the detailed public statement pursuant to the public announcement was made; and
(ii)simultaneously sent to the Board, all the stock exchanges on which
the shares of the target company are listed, and the target company at its registered office.
19.(1) An acquirer may make an open offer conditional as to the minimum level of acceptance:
Provided that where the open offer is pursuant to an agreement, such agreement shall contain a condition to the effect that in the event the desired level of acceptance of the open offer is not received the acquirer shall
Page 49 of 69
not acquire any shares under the open offer and the agreement attracting the obligation to make the open offer shall stand rescinded.
(2) Where an open offer is made conditional upon minimum level of acceptances, the acquirer and persons acting in concert with him shall not acquire, during the offer period, any shares in the target company except under the open offer and any underlying agreement for the sale of shares of the target company pursuant to which the open offer is made.
20.(1) Upon a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares of a target company being made, any person, other than the acquirer who has made such public announcement, shall be entitled to make a public announcement of an open offer within fifteen working days of the date of the detailed public statement made by the acquirer who has made the first public announcement.
(2)The open offer made under sub-regulation (1) shall be for such number of shares which, when taken together with shares held by such acquirer along with persons acting in concert with him, shall be at least equal to the holding of the acquirer who has made the first public announcement, including the number of shares proposed to be acquired by him under the offer and any underlying agreement for the sale of shares of the target company pursuant to which the open offer is made.
(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, an open offer made within the period referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall not be regarded as a voluntary open offer under regulation 6, and the provisions of these regulations shall apply accordingly.
(4)Every open offer made under sub-regulation (1) and the open offer first made shall be regarded as competing offers for purposes of these regulations.
(5)No person shall be entitled to make a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares, or enter into any transaction that would attract the obligation to make a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares under these regulations, after the period of fifteen working days referred to in sub- regulation (1) and until the expiry of the offer period for such open offer.
Page 50 of 69
(6)Unless the open offer first made is an open offer conditional as to the minimum level of acceptances, no acquirer making a competing offer may be made conditional as to the minimum level of acceptances.
(7)No person shall be entitled to make a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares, or enter into any transaction that would attract the obligation to make a public announcement of an open offer under these regulations until the expiry of the offer period where,—
(a)the open offer is for acquisition of shares pursuant to disinvestment, in terms of clause (d) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 13; or
(b)the open offer is pursuant to a relaxation from strict compliance with the provisions of Chapter III or Chapter IV granted by the Board under sub- regulation (2) of regulation 11.
(8)The schedule of activities and the tendering period for all competing offers shall be carried out with identical timelines and the last date for tendering shares in acceptance of the every competing offer shall stand revised to the last date for tendering shares in acceptance of the competing offer last made.
(9)Upon the public announcement of a competing offer, an acquirer who had made a preceding competing offer shall be entitled to revise the terms of his open offer provided the revised terms are more favourable to the shareholders of the target company:
Provided that the acquirers making the competing offers shall be entitled to make upward revisions of the offer price at any time up to 62[one working day] prior to the commencement of the tendering period.
21.(1) For the amount of consideration payable in cash, the acquirer shall open a special escrow account with a banker to an issue registered with the Board and deposit
62 Substituted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018. Prior to this, it read as “three working days”.
Page 51 of 69
therein, such sum as would, together with cash transferred under clause (b) of sub-regulation (10) of regulation 17, make up the entire sum due and payable to the shareholders as consideration payable under the open offer, and empower the manager to the offer to operate the special escrow account on behalf of the acquirer for the purposes under these regulations.
(2)Subject to provisos to sub-regulation (11) of regulation 18, the acquirer shall complete payment of consideration whether in the form of cash, or as the case may be, by issue, exchange or transfer of securities, to all shareholders who have tendered shares in acceptance of the open offer, within ten working days of the expiry of the tendering period.
(3)Unclaimed balances, if any, lying to the credit of the special escrow account referred to in sub-regulation (1) at the end of seven years from the date of deposit thereof, shall be transferred to the Investor Protection and Education Fund established under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection and Education Fund) Regulations, 2009.
22.(1) The acquirer shall not complete the acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over, the target company, whether by way of subscription to shares or a purchase of shares attracting the obligation to make an open offer for acquiring shares, until the expiry of the offer period:
Provided that in case of an offer made under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 20, pursuant to a preferential allotment, the offer shall be completed within the period as provided under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 74 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure) Regulations, 2009.
63[Provided further that in case of a delisting offer made under regulation 5A, the acquirer shall complete the acquisition of shares attracting the obligation to make an offer for acquiring shares in terms of regulations 3, 4 or 5, only after making the public announcement regarding the success of the
63Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 24-03-2015.
Page 52 of 69
delisting proposal made in terms of sub-regulation (1) regulation 18 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009.]
(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), subject to the acquirer depositing in the escrow account under regulation 17, cash of an amount equal to 64 [the entire] consideration payable under the open offer assuming full acceptance of the open offer, the parties to such agreement may after the expiry of twenty-one working days from the date of detailed public statement, act upon the agreement and the acquirer may complete the acquisition of shares or voting
rights in, or control over the target company as contemplated.
65[(2A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), an acquirer may acquire shares of the target company through preferential issue or through the stock exchange settlement process, other than through bulk deals or block deals, subject to ,-
(i)such shares being kept in an escrow account,
(ii)the acquirer not exercising any voting rights over such shares kept in the escrow account:
Provided that such shares may be transferred to the account of the acquirer, subject to the acquirer complying with requirements specified in sub-regulation
(2).]
(3)The acquirer shall complete the acquisitions contracted under any agreement attracting the obligation to make an open offer not later than twenty-six weeks from the expiry of the offer period:
Provided that in the event of any extraordinary and supervening circumstances rendering it impossible to complete such acquisition within such period, the Board may for reasons to be published, may grant an extension of
64 Substituted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018. Prior to this, it read as “one hundred per cent of the”.
65 65Inserted by the SEBI(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 26-03-2013.
23.(1) An open offer for acquiring shares once made shall not be withdrawn except under any of the following circumstances,—
(a)statutory approvals required for the open offer or for effecting the acquisitions attracting the obligation to make an open offer under these regulations having been finally refused, subject to such requirements for approval having been specifically disclosed in the detailed public statement and the letter of offer;
(b)the acquirer, being a natural person, has died;
(c)any condition stipulated in the agreement for acquisition attracting the obligation to make the open offer is not met for reasons outside the reasonable control of the acquirer, and such agreement is rescinded, subject to such conditions having been specifically disclosed in the detailed public statement and the letter of offer; or
66[Provided that an acquirer shall not withdraw an open offer pursuant to a public announcement made under clause (g) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 13, even if the proposed acquisition through the preferential issue is not successful.]
(d)such circumstances as in the opinion of the Board, merit withdrawal. Explanation.— For the purposes of clause (d) of sub-regulation (1), the Board shall pass a reasoned order permitting withdrawal, and such order shall be
hosted by the Board on its official website.
(2)In the event of withdrawal of the open offer, the acquirer shall through the manager to the open offer, within two working days,—
(a)make an announcement in the same newspapers in which the public announcement of the open offer was published, providing the grounds and reasons for withdrawal of the open offer; and
66Inserted by the SEBI(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 26-03-2013.
Page 54 of 69
(b)simultaneously with the announcement, inform in writing to,—
(i)the Board;
(ii)all the stock exchanges on which the shares of the target company are listed, and the stock exchanges shall forthwith disseminate such information to the public; and
24.(1) During the offer period, no person representing the acquirer or any person acting in concert with him shall be appointed as director on the board of directors of the target company, whether as an additional director or in a casual vacancy:
Provided that after an initial period of fifteen working days from the date of detailed public statement, appointment of persons representing the acquirer or persons acting in concert with him on the board of directors may be effected in the event the acquirer deposits in cash in the escrow account referred to in regulation 17, 67[the entire] consideration payable under the open offer:
Provided further that where the acquirer has specified conditions to which the open offer is subject in terms of clause (c) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 23, no director representing the acquirer may be appointed to the board of directors of the target company during the offer period unless the acquirer has waived or attained such conditions and complies with the requirement of depositing cash in the escrow account.
(2)Where an open offer is made conditional upon minimum level of acceptances, the acquirer and persons acting in concert shall, notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, and regardless of the size of the cash deposited in the escrow account referred to regulation 17, not be entitled to appoint any director representing
67 Substituted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018. Prior to this, it read as “one hundred per cent of the”.
Page 55 of 69
the acquirer or any person acting in concert with him on the board of directors of the target company during the offer period.
(3)During the pendency of competing offers, notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, and regardless of the size of the cash deposited in the escrow account referred to in regulation 17, by any acquirer or person acting in concert with him, there shall be no induction of any new director to the board of directors of the target company:
Provided that in the event of death or incapacitation of any director, the vacancy arising therefrom may be filled by any person subject to approval of such appointment by shareholders of the target company by way of a postal ballot.
(4)In the event the acquirer or any person acting in concert is already represented by a director on the board of the target company, such director shall not participate in any deliberations of the board of directors of the target company or vote on any matter in
relation to the open offer.
Obligations of the acquirer.
25(1) Prior to making the public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares under these regulations, the acquirer shall ensure that firm financial arrangements have been made for fulfilling the payment obligations under the open offer and that the acquirer is able to implement the open offer, subject to any statutory approvals for the open offer that may be necessary.
(2)In the event the acquirer has not declared an intention in the detailed public statement and the letter of offer to alienate any material assets of the target company or of any of its subsidiaries whether by way of sale, lease, encumbrance or otherwise outside the ordinary course of business, the acquirer, where he has acquired control over the target company, shall be debarred from causing such alienation for a period of two years after the offer period:
Provided that in the event the target company or any of its subsidiaries is required to so alienate assets despite the intention to alienate not having been expressed by the acquirer, such alienation shall require a special resolution passed by shareholders of the target company, by way of a postal ballot and the notice for
Page 56 of 69
such postal ballot shall inter alia contain reasons as to why such alienation is necessary.
(3)The acquirer shall ensure that the contents of the public announcement, the detailed public statement, the letter of offer and the post-offer advertisement are true, fair and adequate in all material aspects and not misleading in any material particular, and are based on reliable sources, and state the source wherever necessary.
(4)The acquirer and persons acting in concert with him shall not sell shares of the target company held by them, during the offer period.
(5)The acquirer and persons acting in concert with him shall be jointly and severally responsible for fulfillment of applicable obligations under these regulations.
26.(1) Upon a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares of a target company being made, the board of directors of such target company shall ensure that during the offer period, the business of the target company is conducted in the ordinary course consistent with past practice.
(2)During the offer period, unless the approval of shareholders of the target company by way of a special resolution by postal ballot is obtained, the board of directors of either the target company or any of its subsidiaries shall not,—
(a)alienate any material assets whether by way of sale, lease, encumbrance or otherwise or enter into any agreement therefor outside the ordinary course of business;
(b)effect any material borrowings outside the ordinary course of business;
(c)issue or allot any authorised but unissued securities entitling the holder to voting rights:
Provided that the target company or its subsidiaries may,—
(i)issue or allot shares upon conversion of convertible securities issued prior to the public announcement of the open offer, in accordance with pre-determined terms of such conversion;
Page 57 of 69
(ii)issue or allot shares pursuant to any public issue in respect of which the red herring prospectus has been filed with the Registrar of Companies prior to the public announcement of the open offer; or
(iii)issue or allot shares pursuant to any rights issue in respect of which the record date has been announced prior to the public announcement of the open offer;
(d)implement any buy-back of shares or effect any other change to the capital structure of the target company;
(e)enter into, amend or terminate any material contracts to which the target company or any of its subsidiaries is a party, outside the ordinary course of business, whether such contract is with a related party, within the meaning of the term under applicable accounting principles, or with any other person; and
(f)accelerate any contingent vesting of a right of any person to whom the target company or any of its subsidiaries may have an obligation, whether such obligation is to acquire shares of the target company by way of employee stock options or otherwise.
(3)In any general meeting of a subsidiary of the target company in respect of the matters referred to in sub-regulation (2), the target company and its subsidiaries, if any, shall vote in a manner consistent with the special resolution passed by the shareholders of the target company.
(4)The target company shall be prohibited from fixing any record date for a corporate action on or after the third working day prior to the commencement of the tendering period and until the expiry of the tendering period.
(5)The target company shall furnish to the acquirer within two working days from the identified date, a list of shareholders as per the register of members of the target company containing names, addresses, shareholding and folio number, in electronic form, wherever available, and a list of persons whose applications, if any, for registration of transfer of shares are pending with the target company:
Provided that the acquirer shall reimburse reasonable costs payable by the target company to external agencies in order to furnish such information.
Page 58 of 69
(6)Upon receipt of the detailed public statement, the board of directors of the target company shall constitute a committee of independent directors to provide reasoned recommendations on such open offer, and the target company shall publish such recommendations:
Provided that such committee shall be entitled to seek external professional advice at the expense of the target company.
(7)The committee of independent directors shall provide its written reasoned recommendations on the open offer to the shareholders of the target company and such recommendations shall be published in such form as may be specified, at least two working days before the commencement of the tendering period, in the same newspapers where the public announcement of the open offer was published, and simultaneously, a copy of the same shall be sent to,—
(i)the Board;
(ii)all the stock exchanges on which the shares of the target company are listed, and the stock exchanges shall forthwith disseminate such information to the public; and
(iii)to the manager to the open offer, and where there are competing offers, to the manager to the open offer for every competing offer.
(8)The board of directors of the target company shall facilitate the acquirer in verification of shares tendered in acceptance of the open offer.
27.(1) Prior to public announcement being made, the manager to the open offer shall ensure that,—
(a) the acquirer is able to implement the open offer; and
Page 59 of 69
(b)firm arrangements for funds through verifiable means have been made by the acquirer to meet the payment obligations under the open offer.
(2)The manager to the open offer shall ensure that the contents of the public announcement, the detailed public statement and the letter of offer and the post- offer advertisement are true, fair and adequate in all material aspects, not misleading in any material particular, are based on reliable sources, state the source wherever necessary, and are in compliance with the requirements under these regulations.
(3)The manager to the open offer shall furnish to the Board a due diligence certificate along with the draft letter of offer filed under regulation 16.
(4)The manager to the open offer shall ensure that market intermediaries engaged for the purposes of the open offer are registered with the Board.
(5)The manager to the open offer shall exercise diligence, care and professional judgment to ensure compliance with these regulations.
28.(1) The disclosures under this Chapter shall be of the aggregated shareholding and voting rights of the acquirer or promoter of the target company or every person acting in concert with him.
(2)For the purposes of this Chapter, the acquisition and holding of any convertible security shall also be regarded as shares, and disclosures of such acquisitions and holdings shall be made accordingly.
Page 60 of 69
68[(3) For the purposes of this Chapter, the term “encumbrance” shall include,-
(a)any restriction on the free and marketable title to shares, by whatever name called, whether executed directly or indirectly;
(b)pledge, lien, negative lien, non-disposal undertaking; or
(c)any covenant, transaction, condition or arrangement in the nature of encumbrance, by whatever name called, whether executed directly or indirectly.]
29.(1) Any acquirer who acquires shares or voting rights in a target company which taken together with shares or voting rights, if any, held by him and by persons acting in concert with him in such target company, aggregating to five per cent or more of the shares of such target company, shall disclose their aggregate shareholding and voting rights in such target company in such form as may be specified.
69[(2)Any person, who together with persons acting in concert with him, holds shares or voting rights entitling them to five per cent or more of the shares or voting rights in a target company, shall disclose the number of shares or voting rights held and change in shareholding or voting rights, even if such change results in shareholding falling below five per cent, if there has been change in such holdings from the last disclosure made under sub-regulation (1) or under this sub- regulation; and such change exceeds two per cent of total shareholding or voting rights in the target company, in such form as may be specified.]
68Sub-regulation (3) substituted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 29-07-2019. Prior to its substitution it read as follows,-
“(3) For the purposes of this Chapter, the term “encumbrance” shall include a pledge, lien or any such transaction, by whatever name called.”
69Substituted by the SEBI(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 26-03-2013. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as under:
“(2) Any acquirer, who together with persons acting in concert with him, holds shares or voting rights entitling them to five per cent or more of the shares or voting rights in a target company, shall disclose every acquisition or disposal of shares of such target company representing two per cent or more of the shares or voting rights in such target company in such form as may be specified.”
Page 61 of 69
(3)The disclosures required under sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2) shall be made within two working days of the receipt of intimation of allotment of shares, or the acquisition 70 [or the disposal] of shares or voting rights in the target company to,—
(a)every stock exchange where the shares of the target company are listed; and
(b)the target company at its registered office.
(4)For the purposes of this regulation, shares taken by way of encumbrance shall be treated as an acquisition, shares given upon release of encumbrance shall be treated as a disposal, and disclosures shall be made by such person accordingly in such form as may be specified:
Provided that such requirement shall not apply to a scheduled
commercial bank or public financial institution 71[or a housing finance company or a systemically important non-banking financial company] as pledgee in connection with a pledge of shares for securing indebtedness in the ordinary course of business. 72[Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-regulation, -
A. a “housing finance company” means a housing finance company registered with the National Housing Bank for carrying on the business of housing finance and is either deposit taking or having asset size worth rupees five hundred crores or more; and
B.a “systemically important non-banking financial company” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018.]
Continual disclosures.
30(1) Every person, who together with persons acting in concert with him, holds shares or voting rights entitling him to exercise twenty-five per cent or more of the voting rights in a target company, shall disclose their aggregate shareholding and voting
70Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018.
71Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. 31-12-2018
72Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. 31-12-2018.
Page 62 of 69
rights as of the thirty-first day of March, in such target company in such form as may be specified.
(2)The promoter of every target company shall together with persons acting in concert with him, disclose their aggregate shareholding and voting rights as of the thirty-first day of March, in such target company in such form as may be specified.
(3)The disclosures required under sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2) shall be made within seven working days from the end of each financial year to,—
(a)every stock exchange where the shares of the target company are listed; and
(b)the target company at its registered office.
Disclosure of encumbered shares.
31(1) The promoter of every target company shall disclose details of shares in such target company encumbered by him or by persons acting in concert with him in such form as may be specified.
(2)The promoter of every target company shall disclose details of any invocation of such encumbrance or release of such encumbrance of shares in such form as may be specified.
(3)The disclosures required under sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2) shall be made within seven working days from the creation or invocation or release of encumbrance, as the case may be to,—
(a)every stock exchange where the shares of the target company are listed; and
(b)the target company at its registered office.
73[(4) The promoter of every target company shall declare on a yearly basis that he, along with persons acting in concert, has not made any encumbrance, directly or indirectly, other than those already disclosed during the financial year.
(5)The declaration required under sub-regulation (4) shall be made within seven working days from the end of each financial year to –
(a) every stock exchange where the shares of the target company are listed; and
73Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 29-07-2019.
Page 63 of 69
32.(1) Without prejudice to its powers under Chapter VIA and section 24 of the Act, the Board may, in the interest of investors in securities and the securities market, issue such directions 75[or any other order] as it deems fit under section 11 or section 11B or section 11D of the Act, including,—
74Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17-04-2020.
75Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018.
Page 64 of 69
(a)directing divestment of shares acquired in violation of these regulations, whether through public auction or in the open market, or through an offer for sale under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009, and directing the appointment of a merchant banker for such divestiture;
(b)directing transfer of the shares, or any proceeds of a directed sale of shares acquired in violation of these regulations to the Investor Protection and Education Fund established under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection and Education Fund) Regulations, 2009;
(c)directing the target company or any depository not to give effect to any transfer of shares acquired in violation of these regulations;
(d)directing the acquirer or any person acting in concert, or any nominee or proxy not to exercise any voting or other rights attached to shares acquired in violation of these regulations;
(e)debarring any person who has violated these regulations from accessing the capital market or dealing in securities for such period as may be directed, having regard to the nature and gravity of the violation;
(f)directing the acquirer to make an open offer for acquiring shares of the target company at such offer price as determined by the Board in accordance with these regulations;
(g)directing the acquirer not to cause, and the target company not to effect, any disposal of assets of the target company or any of its subsidiaries contrary to the contents of the letter of offer, where the conditions set out in the proviso to sub- regulation (2) of regulation 25 are not met;
(h)directing the acquirer who has failed to make an open offer or has delayed the making of an open offer, to make the open offer and to pay interest at such rate as considered appropriate by the Board along with the offer price;
(i)directing the acquirer who has failed to make payment of the open offer consideration to shareholders, not to make any open offer or enter into any transaction that would attract the obligation to make an open offer in respect of shares of any target company for such period as the Board may deem fit;
Page 65 of 69
(j)directing the acquirer who has made an open offer but has delayed making payment of the open offer consideration to shareholders, to pay interest at such rate as considered appropriate by the Board for the delayed period;
(k)directing any person to cease and desist from exercising control acquired over any target company without complying with the requirements under these regulations;
(l)directing divestiture of such number of shares as would result in the shareholding of an acquirer and persons acting in concert with him being limited to the maximum permissible non-public shareholding or below.
(2)In any proceedings initiated by the Board, the Board shall comply with principles of natural justice before issuing directions to any person.
33.In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the provisions of these regulations, the Board 76[may issue clarifications or guidelines from time to time]:
77[. ]
34.The regulations specified in the Schedule shall be amended in the manner and to the extent stated therein.
76 Substituted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018. Prior to this, it read as “shall have the power to issue directions through guidance notes or circulars”.
77Omitted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-09-2018. Prior to its omission, it read as “Provided that where any direction is issued by the Board in a specific case relating to interpretation or application of any provision of these regulations, it shall be done only after affording a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the concerned persons and after recording reasons for the direction”.
Page 66 of 69
35.(1) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997, 78[stands] repealed from the date on which these regulations come into force.
(2)Notwithstanding such repeal,—
(a)anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken including comments on any letter of offer, exemption granted by the Board, fees collected, any adjudication, enquiry or investigation commenced or show-cause notice issued under the repealed regulations, prior to such repeal, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of these regulations;
(b)the previous operation of the repealed regulations or anything duly done or suffered thereunder, any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under the repealed regulations, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against the repealed regulations, or any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid, shall remain unaffected as if the repealed regulations has never been repealed;
(c)any open offer for which a public announcement has been made under the repealed regulations shall be required to be continued and completed under the repealed regulations.
1.(1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013.
(2)These regulations shall come into force on the ninetieth day from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions shall be construed accordingly,–
(a)“Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);
(b)"Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 of the Act;
(c)“body corporate” shall have the meaning assigned to it in or under sub-section
(7) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);
(d)“certificate” means a certificate of registration granted under these regulations;
1
(e)“change in control” in relation to a company or a body corporate, means:
(i)if its shares are listed on any recognized stock exchange, change in control within the meaning of clause (e) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
(ii)in any other case, change in the controlling interest or change in legal form.
Explanation.─ For the purpose of sub-clause (ii), the expression “controlling interest” means an interest, whether direct or indirect, to the extent of more than fifty percent of voting rights or interest;
(f)“company” means a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956;
(g)“consideration” means any form of economic benefit including non-cash benefit, received or receivable for providing investment advice;
(h)“financial planning” shall include analysis of clients’ current financial situation, identification of their financial goals, and developing and recommending financial strategies to realise such goals;
(i)“firm” means a partnership firm registered under Indian Partnership Act, 1932 (9 of 1932);
(j)“form” means any of the forms set out in the First Schedule;
(k)“inspecting authority” means any one or more persons appointed by the Board to exercise powers conferred under regulation 23;
(l)“investment advice” means advice relating to investing in, purchasing, selling or otherwise dealing in securities or investment products, and advice on investment portfolio containing securities or investment products, whether written, oral or through any other means of communication for the benefit of the client and shall include financial planning:
Provided that investment advice given through newspaper, magazines, any electronic or broadcasting or telecommunications medium, which is widely available to the public shall not be considered as investment advice for the purpose of these regulations;
(m)“investment adviser” means any person, who for consideration, is engaged in the business of providing investment advice to clients or other persons or group of persons and includes any person who holds out himself as an investment adviser, by whatever name called;
(n)“limited liability partnership” means a partnership formed and registered under The Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008(6 of 2009);
(o)“NBFC” means a Non-Banking Financial Company regulated by Reserve Bank of India;
2
(p)“NISM” means the National Institute of Securities Market established by the Board;
(q)“partner” means partner of the firm or a limited liability partnership who renders investment advice on behalf of the firm or limited liability partnership;
3.(1) On and from the commencement of these regulations, no person shall act as an investment adviser or hold itself out as an investment adviser unless he has obtained a certificate of registration from the Board under these regulations:
Provided that a person acting as an investment adviser immediately before the commencement of these regulations may continue to do so for a period of six months from such commencement or, if it has made an application for a certificate under sub- regulation (2) within the said period of six months, till the disposal of such application.
(2)An application for grant of certificate of registration shall be made in Form A as specified in the First Schedule to these regulations and shall be accompanied by a non- refundable application fee to be paid in the manner specified in Second Schedule.
4.The following persons shall not be required to seek registration under regulation 3 subject to the fulfillment of the conditions stipulated therefor, —
(a)Any person who gives general comments in good faith in regard to trends in the financial or securities market or the economic situation where such comments do not specify any particular securities or investment product;
(b)Any insurance agent or insurance broker who offers investment advice solely in insurance products and is registered with Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority for such activity;
(c)Any pension advisor who offers investment advice solely on pension products and is registered with Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority for such activity;
3
(d)Any distributor of mutual funds, who is a member of a self regulatory organisation recognised by the Board or is registered with an association of asset management companies of mutual funds, providing any investment advice to its clients incidental to its primary activity;
(e)Any advocate, solicitor or law firm, who provides investment advice to their clients, incidental to their legal practise;
(f)Any member of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, Institute of Company Secretaries of India, Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India, Actuarial Society of India or any other professional body as may be specified by the Board, who provides investment advice to their clients, incidental to his professional service;
(g)Any stock broker or sub-broker registered under SEBI (Stock Broker and Sub- Broker) Regulations, 1992, portfolio manager registered under SEBI (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 1993 or merchant banker registered under SEBI (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992, who provides any investment advice to its clients incidental to their primary activity:
Provided that such intermediaries shall comply with the general obligation(s) and responsibilities as specified in Chapter III of these regulations:
Provided further that existing portfolio manager offering only investment advisory services may apply for registration under these regulations after expiry of his current certificate of registration as a portfolio manager;
(h)Any fund manager, by whatever name called of a mutual fund, alternative investment fund or any other intermediary or entity registered with the Board;
(i)Any person who provides investment advice exclusively to clients based out of India:
Provided that persons providing investment advice to Non-Resident Indian or Person of Indian Origin shall fall within the purview of these regulations;
(j)Any representative and partner of an investment adviser which is registered under these regulations:
Provided that such representative and partner shall comply with regulation 7 of these regulations;
(k)Any other person as may be specified by the Board.
5.(1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish further information or clarification regarding matters relevant to investment advisory services for the purpose of consideration of the application filed under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3.
(2)The applicant or his authorised representative, if so required, shall appear before the Board for personal representation.
4
6.For the purpose of the grant of certificate the Board shall take into account all matters which are relevant to the grant of certificate of registration and in particular the following, namely, —
(a)whether the applicant is an individual or a body corporate or a firm;
(b)whether in case the applicant is an individual, he is appropriately qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7;
(c)whether in case the applicant is a body corporate, all the representatives of the applicant who provide investment advice are appropriately qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7;
(d)whether in case the applicant is a firm or a limited liability partnership, all partners who are engaged in giving investment advice are qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7.
(e)whether the applicant fulfills the capital adequacy requirements as specified in regulation 8;
(f)whether the applicant, its representatives and partners, if any, are fit and proper persons based on the criteria as specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008;
(g)whether the applicant has the necessary infrastructure to effectively discharge the activities of an investment adviser;
(h)whether the applicant or any person directly or indirectly connected with the applicant has in the past been refused certificate by the Board and if so, the grounds for such refusal;
(i)whether any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board or any other regulatory authority against any person directly or indirectly connected to the applicant under the respective Act, rules or regulations made thereunder;
(j)In case a bank or an NBFC proposes to undertake investment advisory services, whether it has been permitted by Reserve Bank of India and the application is made through a subsidiary or separately identifiable department or division;
(k)In case any body corporate, other than a Bank or NBFC, which proposes to undertake investment advisory services, whether, the application is made through a separately identifiable department or division;
(l)In case an entity incorporated outside India undertakes to provide investment advisory services under these regulations, whether, it has set up a subsidiary in India and whether such subsidiary has made the application for registration;
5
(m)In case a foreign citizen proposes to undertake investment advisory services, whether the applicant has set up an office in India and proposes to undertake investment advisory services through such office.
7.(1) An individual registered as an investment adviser under these regulations and partners and representatives of an investment adviser registered under these regulations offering investment advice shall have the following minimum qualifications, at all times:
(a)A professional qualification or post-graduate degree or post graduate diploma in finance, accountancy, business management, commerce, economics, capital market, banking, insurance or actuarial science from a university or an institution recognized by the central government or any state government or a recognised foreign university or institution or association; or
(b)A graduate in any discipline with an experience of at least five years in activities relating to advice in financial products or securities or fund or asset or portfolio management.
(2)An individual registered as an investment adviser and partners and representatives of investment advisers registered under these regulations offering investment advice shall have, at all times, a certification on financial planning or fund or asset or portfolio management or investment advisory services:
(a)from NISM; or
(b)from any other organization or institution including Financial Planning Standards Board India or any recognized stock exchange in India provided that such certification is accredited by NISM.:
Provided that the existing investment advisers seeking registration under these regulations shall ensure that their partners and representatives obtain such certification within two years from the date of commencement of these regulations:
Provided further that fresh certification must be obtained before expiry of the validity of the existing certification to ensure continuity in compliance with certification requirements.
8.(1) Investment advisers which are body corporate shall have a net worth of not less than twenty five lakh rupees.
Explanation.─ For the purposes of this regulation, "networth" means the aggregate value of paid up share capital plus free reserves (excluding reserves created out of revaluation) reduced by the aggregate value of accumulated losses, deferred expenditure not written off, including miscellaneous expenses not written off, and capital adequacy requirement for other services offered by the advisers in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations.
6
(2)Investment advisers who are individuals or partnership firms shall have net tangible assets of value not less than rupees one lakh:
Provided that existing investment advisers shall comply with the capital adequacy requirement within one year from the date of commencement of these regulations.
9.The Board on being satisfied that the applicant complies with the requirements specified in regulation 6 shall send intimation to the applicant and on receipt of the payment of registration 1[***] fees as specified in Second Schedule, grant certificate of registration in Form B under First Schedule, subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may deem fit and appropriate.
10.The certificate of registration granted under regulation 9 shall be valid 2[till it is suspended or cancelled by the Board.]
11. 3[The investment adviser which has already been granted certificate of registration by the Board, prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain Intermediaries)(Amendment) Regulations, 2016 shall be deemed to have been granted a certificate of registration, in terms of sub-regulation (1).]
12.(1) After considering an application made under regulation 3, if the Board is of the opinion that a certificate should not be granted to the applicant, it may reject the application after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(2)The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant within thirty days of such decision.
(3)Where an application for a certificate is rejected by the Board, the applicant shall forthwith cease to act as an investment adviser:
Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall affect the liability of the applicant towards its existing clients under law.
1The words “/renewal” was omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
2Substituted for the words “for a period of five years from the date of its issue.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
3Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution regulation 11 read as under:
“11. (1) Three months before the expiry of the period of validity of the certificate, the investment adviser may, if he so desires, make an application in Form A for grant of renewal of certificate of registration.
(2)The application for renewal under sub-regulation (1) shall be dealt with in the same manner as if it were an application made under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3 for grant of certificate.”
7
13.The certificate granted under regulation 9 shall, inter alia, be subject to the following conditions:-
(a)the investment adviser shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations;
(b)the investment adviser shall forthwith inform the Board in writing, if any information or particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be false or misleading in any material particular or if there is any material change in the information already submitted;
(c)the investment adviser, not being an individual, shall include the words
‘investment adviser’ in its name:
Provided that if the investment advisory service is being provided by a separately identifiable department or division or a subsidiary, then such separately identifiable department or division or subsidiary shall include the words ‘investment adviser’ in its name;
(d)individuals registered as investment advisers shall use the term ‘investment adviser’ in all their correspondences with their clients.
14.(1) The Board may recognize any body or body corporate for the purpose of regulating investment advisers.
(2)The Board may, at the time of recognition of such body or body corporate, delegate administration and supervision of investment advisers to such body or body corporate on such terms and conditions as may be specified by the Board.
15.(1) An investment adviser shall act in a fiduciary capacity towards its clients and shall disclose all conflicts of interests as and when they arise.
(2)An investment adviser shall not receive any consideration by way of remuneration or compensation or in any other form from any person other than the client being advised, in respect of the underlying products or securities for which advice is provided.
8
(3)An investment adviser shall maintain an arms-length relationship between its activities as an investment adviser and other activities.
(4)An investment adviser which is also engaged in activities other than investment advisory services shall ensure that its investment advisory services are clearly segregated from all its other activities, in the manner as prescribed hereunder.
(5)An investment adviser shall ensure that in case of any conflict of interest of the investment advisory activities with other activities, such conflict of interest shall be disclosed to the client.
(6)An investment adviser shall not divulge any confidential information about its client, which has come to its knowledge, without taking prior permission of its clients, except where such disclosures are required to be made in compliance with any law for the time being in force.
(7)An investment advisor shall not enter into transactions on its own account which is contrary to its advice given to clients for a period of fifteen days from the day of such advice.
Provided that during the period of such fifteen days, if the investment adviser is of the opinion that the situation has changed, then it may enter into such a transaction on its own account after giving such revised assessment to the client at least 24 hours in advance of entering into such transaction.
(8)An investment advisor shall follow Know Your Client procedure as specified by the Board from time to time.
(9)An investment adviser shall abide by Code of Conduct as specified in Third Schedule.
(10)An investment adviser shall not act on its own account, knowingly to sell securities or investment products to or purchase securities or investment product from a client.
(11)In case of change in control of the investment adviser, prior approval from the Board shall be taken.
(12)Investment advisers shall furnish to the Board information and reports as may be specified by the Board from time to time.
(13)It shall be the responsibility of the Investment Adviser to ensure that its representatives and partners, as applicable, comply with the certification and qualification requirements under Regulation 7 at all times.
16.Investment adviser shall ensure that,-
(a)it obtains from the client, such information as is necessary for the purpose of giving investment advice, including the following:-
(i)age;
9
(ii)investment objectives including time for which they wish to stay invested, the purposes of the investment ;
(iii)income details;
(iv)existing investments/ assets;
(v)risk appetite/ tolerance;
(vi)liability/borrowing details.
(b)it has a process for assessing the risk a client is willing and able to take, including:
(i)assessing a client’s capacity for absorbing loss;
(ii)identifying whether client is unwilling or unable to accept the risk of loss of capital;
(iii)appropriately interpreting client responses to questions and not attributing inappropriate weight to certain answers.
(c)where tools are used for risk profiling, it should be ensured that the tools are fit for the purpose and any limitations are identified and mitigated;
(d)any questions or description in any questionnaires used to establish the risk a client is willing and able to take are fair, clear and not misleading, and should ensure that:
(i)questionnaire is not vague or use double negatives or in a complex language that the client may not understand;
(ii)questionnaire is not structured in a way that it contains leading questions.
(e)risk profile of the client is communicated to the client after risk assessment is done;
17.Investment adviser shall ensure that,-
(a)All investments on which investment advice is provided is appropriate to the risk profile of the client;
(b)It has a documented process for selecting investments based on client’s investment objectives and financial situation;
(c)It understands the nature and risks of products or assets selected for clients;
(d)It has a reasonable basis for believing that a recommendation or transaction entered into:
(i)meets the client’s investment objectives;
(ii)is such that the client is able to bear any related investment risks consistent with its investment objectives and risk tolerance;
10
(iii)is such that the client has the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
18.(1) An investment adviser shall disclose to a prospective client, all material information about itself including its business, disciplinary history, the terms and conditions on which it offers advisory services, affiliations with other intermediaries and such other information as is necessary to take an informed decision on whether or not to avail its services.
(2)An investment adviser shall disclose to its client, any consideration by way of remuneration or compensation or in any other form whatsoever, received or receivable by it or any of its associates or subsidiaries for any distribution or execution services in respect of the products or securities for which the investment advice is provided to the client.
(3)An investment adviser shall, before recommending the services of a stock broker or other intermediary to a client, disclose any consideration by way of remuneration or compensation or in any other form whatsoever, if any, received or receivable by the investment adviser, if the client desires to avail the services of such intermediary.
(4)An investment adviser shall disclose to the client its holding or position, if any, in the financial products or securities which are subject matter of advice.
(5)An investment adviser shall disclose to the client any actual or potential conflicts of interest arising from any connection to or association with any issuer of products/ securities, including any material information or facts that might compromise its objectivity or independence in the carrying on of investment advisory services.
(6)An investment adviser shall, while making an investment advice, make adequate disclosure to the client of all material facts relating to the key features of the products or securities, particularly, performance track record.
(7)An investment adviser shall draw the client’s attention to the warnings, disclaimers in documents, advertising materials relating to an investment product which it is recommending to the client.
19.(1) An investment adviser shall maintain the following records,-
(a)Know Your Client records of the client;
(b)Risk profiling and risk assessment of the client;
11
(c)Suitability assessment of the advice being provided;
(d)Copies of agreements with clients, if any;
(e)Investment advice provided, whether written or oral;
(f)Rationale for arriving at investment advice, duly signed and dated;
(g)A register or record containing list of the clients, the date of advice, nature of the advice, the products/securities in which advice was rendered and fee, if any charged for such advice.
(2)All records shall be maintained either in physical or electronic form and preserved for a minimum period of five years:
Provided that where records are required to be duly signed and are maintained in electronic form, such records shall be digitally signed.
20.An investment adviser which is a body corporate or a partnership firm shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be responsible for monitoring the compliance by the investment adviser in respect of the requirements of the Act, regulations, notifications, guidelines, instructions issued by the Board.
21.(1) An investment adviser shall redress client grievances promptly.
(2)An investment adviser shall have adequate procedure for expeditious grievance redressal.
(3)Client grievances pertaining to financial products in which investments have been made based on investment advice, shall fall within the purview of the regulator of such financial product.
(4)Any dispute between the investment adviser and his client may be resolved through arbitration or through Ombudsman authorized or appointed for the purpose by any regulatory authority, as applicable.
22.Investment advisers which are banks, NBFCs and body corporate providing distribution or execution services to their clients shall keep their investment advisory services segregated from such activities:
Provided that such distribution or execution services can only be offered subject to the following:
(a)The client shall not be under any obligation to avail the distribution or execution services offered by the investment adviser.
12
(b)The investment adviser shall maintain arms length relationship between its activities as investment adviser and distribution or execution services.
23.The Board may suo motu or upon receipt of information or complaint appoint one or more persons as inspecting authority to undertake inspection of the books of accounts, records and documents relating to investment advisers for any of the following reasons, namely: -
(a)to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being maintained by the investment adviser in the manner specified in these regulations;
(b)to inspect into complaints received from clients or any other person, on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the investment adviser;
(c)to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act and these regulations are being complied with by the investment adviser;
(d)to inspect into the affairs of a investment adviser, in the interest of the securities market or in the interest of investors.
24.(1) Before ordering an inspection under regulation 23, the Board shall give not less than ten days notice to the investment adviser.
(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may by an order in writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the investment adviser be taken up without such notice.
(3)During the course of an inspection, the investment adviser against whom the inspection is being carried out shall be bound to discharge its obligations as provided in regulation 25.
25.(1) It shall be the duty of every investment adviser in respect of whom an inspection has been ordered under the regulation 23 and any other associate person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of such investment adviser, including representative of investment adviser, if any, to produce to the inspecting authority such books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control
13
and furnish him with such statements and information as the inspecting authority may require for the purposes of inspection.
(2)It shall be the duty of every investment adviser and any other associate person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of the investment adviser to give to the inspecting authority all such assistance and shall extend all such co-operation as may be required in connection with the inspection and shall furnish such information as sought by the inspecting authority in connection with the inspection.
(3)The inspecting authority shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to examine on oath and record the statement of any employees, directors, partners or person responsible for or connected with the activities of investment adviser or any other associate person having relevant information pertaining to such investment adviser.
(4)The inspecting authority shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to obtain authenticated copies of documents, books, accounts of investment adviser, from any person having control or custody of such documents, books or accounts.
26.The inspecting authority shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection submit an inspection report to the Board:
Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, the inspecting authority may submit an interim report.
27.The Board may after consideration of the inspection report and after giving reasonable opportunity of hearing to the investment advisers or its authorized representatives, issue such directions as it deems fit in the interest of securities market or the investors including,-
(a)requiring an investment adviser not to provide investment advice for a particular period;
(b)requiring the investment adviser to refund any money collected as fees, charges or commissions or otherwise to the concerned clients along with the requisite interest.
28.An investment adviser who -
14
(a)contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or any regulations or circulars issued thereunder;
(b)fails to furnish any information relating to its activity as an investment adviser as required by the Board;
(c)furnishes to the Board information which is false or misleading in any material particular;
(d)does not submit periodic returns or reports as required by the Board;
(e)does not co-operate in any enquiry, inspection or investigation conducted by the Board;
(f)fails to resolve the complaints of investors or fails to give a satisfactory reply to the Board in this behalf,
28A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis.
Explanation. — For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means a live testing environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.]
4Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17-04-2020.
29.In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars.
30.The Board reserves the right to alter, modify and overrule any decision, action taken or penalties imposed by the body or body corporate recognized under regulation 14.
1.The body corporate or the responsible person, appreciated there was a risk that their actions or inaction could result in a violation of securities laws and failed adequately to mitigate that risk:
Explanation. – The following shall be deemed to be reckless, -
a.failure to appoint competent officials for discharge of their duties, including a compliance officer;
b.failure to put in place adequate systemic safeguards; or
c.failure to put in place a code of conduct.
V.While considering the various factors and the aggregate base values, the following specific base values shall also be taken into account, -
TABLE IV- GENERAL BASE VALUES, APPLICABLE IN ALL CASES
 
NATURE OF VIOLATION
a.
Fraudulent and unfair trade practice
 
(FUTP); or Insider trading,
 
including tipping (IT); or violation
2.In view of the aforesaid, probable proceedings against you under….(relevant provisions under which the proceedings may be initiated or continued) may be initiated or continued
3.Notwithstanding anything contained in this notice, the Board reserves the right to modify the proceedings and charges to be brought against you and this notice shall not confer any right to seek settlement or avoid any action initiated by the Board.
4.Subject to regulation 5 of the SEBI (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018, the aforesaid proceedings to be initiated may, be settled and disposed of upon filing of a
66
settlement application under Chapter-II of the SEBI (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations,
5.If the settlement application is not filed, the Board may initiate any proceedings against you in accordance with law and you shall be permitted to file a settlement application only at the next stage in respect of proceedings pending before a Court or a tribunal, after conclusion of proceedings before the Adjudicating Officer or the Board, as the case may be.
Name, designation and signature
Encl: As above
6.Evidence of planning, pre-meditation or sophisticated means:
7.A listed intermediary or securities market infrastructure institution was substantially jeopardized:
Explanation. - A listed intermediary or securities market infrastructure institution shall be deemed to have been substantially jeopardized if as a result of the alleged default:
a.it has become insolvent or an application under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 was admitted;
b.it was unable on demand to refund fully any public deposit, payment or investment; or
c.it is so depleted of assets that it is forced to merge with another institution in
order to continue active operations.
8.(1) The filing of an application for settlement of any specified proceedings shall not affect the continuance of the proceedings save that the passing of the final order shall be kept in abeyance till the application is disposed of.
(2)Where the application is filed in case of proceedings that may be initiated against the applicant, such proceedings shall not be initiated till the application is rejected or withdrawn:
Provided that, the filing of an application shall not prohibit the initiation of any proceedings, in so far as may be deemed necessary for the purpose of issuance of interim civil and administrative directions to protect the interests of investors and to maintain the integrity of the securities markets.
Explanation. - Where any proceeding is pending or to be initiated against several persons but the settlement application is filed only by one or more persons, but not all, the filing of such an application shall not affect the initiation, continuation and disposal of the proceedings against the person who has not filed the application for settlement and any adverse observations made in such proceedings against the applicant shall qua the applicant be subject to the outcome of the settlement application filed by such applicant.
9.The applicant abused a position of trust or used a special skill, in a manner such that significantly facilitated the commission or concealment of the alleged default: Explanation 1. - This factor applies if the applicant occupied and abused a position of trust. It does not apply to an ordinary tippee.
Explanation 2. - This factor applies if the applicant’s position involved regular participation or professional assistance in creating, issuing, buying, selling, or trading securities or products was used to facilitate significantly the commission or concealment of the default. It does not apply to clerical staff in an organisation; as such position ordinarily does not involve special skill.
Explanation 3. - ‘Special skill’ refers to a skill not possessed by members of the general public and requires professional education, training or licensing, e.g. chartered accountant, advocate, auditor, compliance officer, etc.
10.The applicant was the key-operator, whether or not he himself traded:
Explanation 1. - A person is a key-operator if he was an organizer or leader of an illegal activity or the main beneficiary of the default:
Provided that, if a person is merely a manager or supervisor (but not an organizer or leader or the main beneficiary) then he is not a key-operator.
11.Exercising management control by use of fraudulent or forged securities or securities
issued without appropriate approvals;
12.Reporting of false information.
13.(1) Save as otherwise provided in these regulations, an application shall be referred to an Internal Committee to examine whether the proceedings may be settled and if so to determine the settlement terms in accordance with these regulations.
(2)The Internal Committee may:
(a)call for relevant information, documents, etc., pertaining to the alleged default(s) in possession of the applicant or obtainable by the applicant;
Explanation. – Nothing in these regulations shall confer a right upon the applicant to seek information from the Board or require the Board to seek information from any other person for the purpose of relying upon it in the settlement proceedings or request the Board to permit it to present information not already disclosed in the application, which the applicant was aware of at the time of making the application or which information upon diligent enquiry being made could have become known to the applicant.
(b)call for the personal appearance of the applicant before it:
11
Provided that a duly authorized representative of the applicant may represent on behalf of the applicant:
Explanation. - Personal appearance under this clause includes appearance through audio-video electronic means or through the medium of electronic video linkage as may be permitted by the Internal Committee.
(c)permit the applicant to submit revised settlement terms within a period not exceeding ten working days from the date of the Internal Committee meeting:
Provided that the revised settlement terms received after ten working days, but within twenty working days may be considered subject to an increase of ten percent over the recommended settlement amount.
14.(1) The High Powered Advisory Committee shall consider the proposed settlement terms placed before it along with the following:
(a)the application, undertaking and waivers of the applicant;
(b)factors specified in regulation 10;
(c)settlement terms or revised settlement terms proposed by the applicant;
(d)any other relevant material available on record.
(2)The High Powered Advisory Committee may seek revision of the settlement terms and refer the application back to the Internal Committee.
15.(1) The Panel of Whole Time Members shall consider the recommendations of the High Powered Advisory Committee and may accept or reject the same:
12
Provided that where the recommendations of the High Powered Advisory Committee to settle the specified proceedings are rejected, the panel of Whole Time Members shall record reasons for rejection of the recommendations:
Provided further that where the recommendation of the High Powered Advisory Committee to settle the specified proceedings are rejected, such decision of the panel of Whole Time Members shall be communicated to the applicant.
(2)Where the Panel of Whole Time Members accepts the recommendation of the High Powered Advisory Committee to settle the specified proceedings, the applicant shall be issued a notice of demand within seven working days of the decision of the panel and the applicant shall, -
(a)remit the settlement amount forming part of the settlement terms, not later than fifteen calendar days from the date of receipt of the notice of demand, which may be extended by the Panel of Whole Time Members for reasons to be recorded, by fifteen
calendar days:
Explanation. – Remittance of settlement amount shall be done by way of a demand draft drawn in favour of 'Securities and Exchange Board of India' payable at Mumbai or by way of direct credit in the specified bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other authorised mode of payment.
Provided that, where the settlement amount is remitted after thirty calendar days from the date of receipt of the notice of demand and on or before the ninetieth day from such receipt, the settlement amount payable by the applicant shall be increased by the levy of simple interest at the rate of six per cent per annum from the date of receipt of the notice of demand till the date of payment of the settlement amount:
Provided further that, in no case shall such remittance be accepted after the ninetieth calendar day from the date of the receipt of the notice of demand.
(b)fulfil/undertake in writing to abide by, the other settlement terms, if any, within the time provided to the applicant.
(3)Where the Panel of Whole Time Members does not accept the recommendation of the High
Powered Advisory Committee to settle the specified proceedings on the settlement terms
16.(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in Chapter VI, before initiating any specified proceeding, the Board may issue a notice of summary settlement in the format as specified in Part-A of Schedule-III, calling upon the noticee to file a settlement application under Chapter- II and submit the settlement amount and/or furnish an undertaking in respect of other non- monetary terms or comply with other non-monetary terms, as may be specified in the summary settlement notice in respect of the specified proceeding(s) to be initiated for the following defaults,-
i.Delayed disclosures, including filing of returns, report, document, etc.;
ii.Non-disclosure in relation to companies exclusively listed on regional stock exchanges which have exited;
iii.Disclosures not made in the specified formats;
iv.Delayed compliance of any of the requirements of law or directions issued by the Board;
v.Such other defaults as may be determined by the Board.
Provided that, the specified proceeding(s) shall not be settled under this Chapter, if in the opinion of the Board, the applicant has failed to make a full and true disclosure of facts or failed to co-operate in the required manner.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in the notice of settlement, the Board shall have the power to modify the enforcement action to be brought against the noticee and the notice of settlement shall not confer any right upon the noticee to seek settlement or avoid any enforcement action.
14
(3)The noticee may, within thirty calendar days from the date of receipt of the notice of settlement, -
(a)file a settlement application in the Form specified in Part-A of Schedule-I along with non-refundable application fee as specified in Part-B and the undertakings and waivers as specified in Part-C of Schedule-I;
(b)remit the settlement amount as specified in the notice of settlement;
(c)comply or undertake to comply with other non-monetary terms as specified in the notice of settlement, as the case may be; and
(d)seek rectification of the calculation of the settlement amount, as communicated in the notice of settlement, at the time of filing the settlement application and in all such cases, the decision of the Board shall be final and remittance shall be done within thirty calendar days from the date of receipt of the decision of the Board:
Provided that, the Board may for reasons to be recorded, grant extension of time not exceeding a further period of fifteen calendar days for filing the settlement application, remittance of the settlement amount and/or furnishing an undertaking in respect of any of the non-monetary terms or compliance with any of the non-monetary terms specified in the notice of settlement.
17.Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, where a noticee does not file a settlement application under this Chapter or remit the settlement amount and/or comply with other non-monetary terms to the satisfaction of the Board or withdraws the settlement application at any time prior to the communication of the decision of the Board, the specified proceedings may be initiated, and such a noticee shall only be permitted to file a settlement application in respect of the proceedings pending before the Court or Tribunal, after conclusion
of proceedings before the Adjudicating Officer or the Board, as the case may be.
18.(1) A notice of settlement in the format as specified in Part-B of Schedule-III, indicating the substance of the probable charges and enforcement actions, may, except in cases covered under Chapter VII, be issued by the Board prior to the issuance of the notice to show cause so as to afford the noticee an opportunity to file a settlement application under Chapter-II, within fifteen calendar days from the date of receipt of the settlement notice.
(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in the settlement notice, the Board shall have the right to modify the nature of the enforcement action to be initiated against the noticee and the charges stated in the notice shall not confer any right to seek settlement on the said basis or avoid any enforcement action due to modified charges.
19. (1) An applicant seeking the benefit of confidentiality in return for admitting for the limited purpose of settlement of specified proceedings to be initiated and agreeing to provide substantial assistance in the investigation, inspection, inquiry or audit, to be initiated or
16
ongoing, against any other person in respect of a violation of securities laws, shall fulfil the conditions of this Chapter, including –
(a)cease to participate in the violation of securities laws from the time of the disclosure of information, unless otherwise directed by the Board;
(b)provide and continue to provide complete and true disclosure of information, documents and evidence, which is in his possession or he is able to obtain, to the satisfaction of the Board in respect of the alleged contravention of the provisions of securities laws;
(c)co-operate fully, continuously and expeditiously throughout the investigation, inspection, inquiry or audit and related proceedings before the Board; and
(d)not conceal, destroy, manipulate or remove the relevant documents in any manner that may contribute to the establishment of the alleged violation.
Explanation. – Violation of securities laws in this Chapter refers to defaults other than those of disclosure and reporting requirements detailed in Schedule II.
Provided that an application made under this chapter shall be made only in cases prior to or pending investigation, inspection, inquiry or audit.
(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, where an applicant fails to comply with the conditions mentioned in this regulation, the Board may rely upon the information and evidence submitted by the applicant in any proceedings
(3)Without prejudice to sub-regulations (1) and (2), the Board may subject the applicant to further restrictions or conditions, as deemed fit, after considering the facts and circumstances of the case.
(4)For the purpose of seeking confidentiality, the applicant or its authorized representative may make an application containing all the relevant disclosures pertaining to the information as specified in Schedule-IV for furnishing the information and evidence relating to the commission of any violation of securities laws.
17
(5)Upon being satisfied the Board may assure the benefit of confidentiality and shall thereupon mark the status of the application depending upon its priority and convey the same to the applicant in writing.
(6)The Board may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, at any stage, reject the application if the information, documents or evidence is found to be incomplete or false to the knowledge of the applicant.
20. (1) The provisions of Chapters IV to VI of these regulations may be applied mutatis mutandis to a settlement application filed under this Chapter and a settlement order passed accordingly.
(2)The information, documents and evidence provided by the applicant under this chapter shall be submitted in the manner specified by the Board.
21. For the purposes of providing the applicant with interim confidentiality and assurance from being proceeded with, the Board may not initiate regulatory measures when the Board has a reasonable belief that the information provided to it relates to a possible securities law violation that has occurred, is ongoing or about to occur.
22. Notwithstanding anything contained in Chapter X, the following shall be treated as confidential, -
(a)the identity of the applicant seeking confidentiality; and
(b)the information, documents and evidence furnished by the applicant under this Chapter:
Provided that, the identity of the applicant or such information or documents or evidence may not be treated as confidential if, —
(i)the disclosure is required by law;
18
(ii)the applicant has agreed to such disclosure in writing; or
23.(1) The Adjudicating Officer shall by an appropriate order dispose of the proceeding pending before him on the basis of the approved settlement terms.
Explanation. -In case of concurrent proceedings, a comprehensive order may be passed by the Panel of Whole Time Members and thereafter the concerned Adjudicating officer may pass an order, disposing of the relevant proceedings before him, in view of the settlement.
(2)The Panel of the Whole Time Members shall by an appropriate order dispose of proceedings initiated or proposed to be initiated other than the proceedings referred to in sub-regulation (1).
(3)The settlement order passed under these regulations shall, contain the details of the alleged default(s), relevant provisions of the securities laws, brief facts and circumstances relevant to the alleged default, the admissions made by the applicant, if any and the settlement terms.
24.(1) Save as otherwise provided in these regulations, the provisions with regard to settlement of specified proceedings shall mutatis mutandis apply to an application for settlement of any proceeding pending before the Tribunal or any court.
(2)The proposal of settlement along with the settlement terms or rejection thereof shall be placed before such Tribunal or court for appropriate orders.
25.Settlement orders shall be served on the applicant and shall also be published on the website of the Board:
19
Provided that settlement orders in matters relating to the confidentiality shall not, directly or indirectly, disclose the identity of the applicant, but shall indicate the provisions of securities laws which the applicant is alleged to have violated.
26.Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, the Board may specify the procedure and terms of settlement of specified proceedings under a settlement scheme for any class of persons involved in respect of any similar specified defaults.
Explanation. - A settlement order issued under a Settlement scheme shall be deemed to be a settlement order under these regulations.
27.(1) A settlement order under these regulations shall not be admissible as evidence in any other proceeding relating to an alleged default not covered under the settlement order nor affect the right of third parties arising out of the alleged default.
(2)Where any applicant who obtains a settlement order is also noticee along with any other person in any civil and administrative proceeding, the Adjudicating Officer or the Board while disposing proceedings against such other person may make necessary observations in respect of the applicant in so far as is necessary to prove the act of another:
Provided that, unless the settlement order is revoked, such observations shall qua the applicant be subject to the settlement order obtained by the applicant.
(3)Where any person has obtained a settlement order, which contains observations in respect of any other person for the commission of an alleged default, such an order shall not in itself be admissible as evidence against such other person.
28.(1) If the applicant fails to comply with the settlement order or at any time after the settlement order is passed, it comes to the notice of the Board that the applicant has not made full and true disclosure or has violated the undertakings or waivers, settlement order shall stand revoked and withdrawn and the Board shall restore or initiate the proceedings, with respect to
which the settlement order was passed.
20
29.(1) All information submitted and discussions held in pursuance of the settlement proceedings under these regulations shall be deemed to have been received or made in a fiduciary capacity and the same may not be released to the public, if the same prejudices the Board and/or the applicant.
(2)Where an application is rejected or withdrawn, the applicant and the Board shall not rely upon or introduce as evidence before any court or Tribunal, any proposals made or information submitted or representation made by the applicant under these regulations:
Provided that this sub-regulation shall not apply where the settlement order is revoked or withdrawn under these regulations.
Explanation. – When any fact is discovered in consequence of information received from a person in pursuance of an application, so much of such information, whether it amounts to an admission or not, as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered, may be proved.
30.In order to remove any difficulty in the interpretation or application or implementation of the provisions of these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue clarifications and specify procedures through circulars or guidelines.
31.No settlement order or rejection of a settlement application shall be void on ground of any defect in procedure or calculation of the settlement amount or on account of any vacancy in or any defect in the constitution of any committee under Chapter V:
21
Provided that, nothing in these regulations shall prohibit the Board from revoking the settlement order where the applicant fails to pay any difference due to any discrepancy in calculation of the settlement amount:
Provided further that, the applicant shall continue to be bound by the waivers given in respect of limitation or laches in respect of initiating or continuing or restoring of any legal proceeding and the waivers given in sub-paras (d), (e) (f) and (g) of para 12 of the undertaking and waivers as provided in Part-C of the Schedule-I.
32.Schedule-II of these regulations shall be relevant but not bind the Board or an Adjudicating Officer in any specified proceeding and the Board or the Adjudicating Officer may apply them to the extent possible.
33.The provisions of Chapters IV to VI and Schedule-II may be applied mutatis mutandis for arriving at a proposal pursuant to a compounding application.
34.(1) On and from the commencement of these regulations, Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) Regulations, 2014 shall stand repealed.
(2)Notwithstanding any such repeal:
(a)Notice of settlement issued under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) Regulations, 2014 shall be deemed to have been filed in accordance with these regulations and shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of these regulations;
(b)All applications filed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) Regulations, 2014 and pending with the Board shall be deemed to have been filed in accordance with these regulations and shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of these regulations;
22
(c)All settlement orders passed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) Regulations, 2014 shall be deemed to have been passed under these regulations;
(d)The Internal Committee(s) and the High Powered Advisory Committee constituted by the Board in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) Regulations, 2014, shall be deemed to have been constituted under these regulations;
(e)The proposals of the Internal Committees and the recommendations of the High Powered Advisory Committee in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) Regulations, 2014 and any action taken by the Board on the basis of these recommendations shall be deemed to have been made under these regulations.
(3)Notwithstanding anything contained in Chapters VI to Chapter VIII, with respect to specified proceedings pending as on the date of commencement of this Chapter, the Board may issue a notice of summary settlement or settlement under Chapter VII or Chapter VIII, as the case may be, in respect of such proceedings and in such cases the procedure specified in Chapter VII or Chapter VIII shall apply mutatis mutandis, as the case may be:
0.01% OF THE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AVERAGE NET
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WORTH, AT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TIME OF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VIOLATION,
 
 
 
60
 
 
 
 
WHICHEVER IS
HIGHER
1.(1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Research Analysts) Regulations, 2014.
(2)These regulations shall come into force on the ninetieth day from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions shall be construed accordingly,–
(a)“Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);
(b)"asset management company" means a company as defined under clause(d) of Regulation 2 of Securities and Exchange Board of India ( Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996;
(c)"associate" means an associate as defined in Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008;
(d)"Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 of the Act;
(e)“certificate” means a certificate of registration granted under these regulations;
(f)“control” means control as defined under the Companies Act, 2013;
Page 1 of 24
(g)"fund manager" includes fund managers of a mutual fund or alternative investment fund or venture capital fund or portfolio manager;
(h)"independent research analyst" means a person whose only business activity is research analysis or preparation and/or publication of research report;
(i)“inspecting authority” means any one or more persons appointed by the Board to exercise powers conferred under regulation 27;
(j)"investment adviser" means any person registered under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013;
(k)“limited liability partnership” means a partnership formed and registered under The
Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008(6 of 2009);
(l)“merchant banking or investment banking or brokerage services” includes,-
i.acting as an underwriter;
ii.participating in a selling or an offering for the issuer or otherwise acting in furtherance of a public offer of the issuer;
iii.acting as an adviser in a merger or acquisition;
iv.providing or arranging venture capital or equity or debt;
v.serving as placement agent for the issuer or otherwise acting in furtherance of a private offering of the issuer;
vi.offering brokerage or market making services;
(m)“NBFC” means a Non-Banking Financial Company registered by Reserve Bank of India;
(n)“NISM” means the National Institute of Securities Market established by the Board;
(o)"price target" means expectations of research analyst on the future performance of specific securities;
(p)"proxy adviser” means any person who provide advice, through any means, to institutional investor or shareholder of a company, in relation to exercise of their rights in the company including recommendations on public offer or voting recommendation on agenda items;
(q)“public appearance” means any participation in a conference call, seminar, forum (including interactive and non-interactive electronic forum), radio or television or internet or web or print media broadcast, authoring a print media article or other public speaking activity in public media in which a research analyst makes a recommendation or offers an opinion, concerning securities or public offer:
Provided that it does not include a password protected webcast, conference call or such other events with the clients, if all of the event participants previously received the research report or other documentation that contains the required applicable disclosures and that the research analyst appearing at the event corrects and updates during the public appearance any disclosures in the research report that are inaccurate, misleading or no longer applicable;
(r)“public media” means any media source available to the general public and includes a radio, television, internet, web or print media;
Page 2 of 24
(s)"public offer" includes initial public offer, further public offer, offer for sale, disinvestment, takeover, buy-back or delisting of securities;
(t)"relative" means a person as defined in sub section (77) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 and who is financially dependent on independent research analyst or individual research analyst employed by research entity;
(u)“research analyst” means a person who is primarily responsible for,-
i.preparation or publication of the content of the research report; or
ii.providing research report; or
iii.making 'buy/sell/hold' recommendation; or
iv.giving price target; or
v.offering an opinion concerning public offer,
with respect to securities that are listed or to be listed in a stock exchange, whether or not any such person has the job title of 'research analyst' and includes any other entities engaged in issuance of research report or research analysis.
Explanation.-The term also includes any associated person who reports directly or indirectly to such a research analyst in connection with activities provided above;
(v)"research entity" means an intermediary registered with Board who is also engaged in merchant banking or investment banking or brokerage services or underwriting services and issue research report or research analysis in its own name through the individuals employed by it as research analyst and includes any other intermediary engaged in issuance of research report or research analysis;
(w)“research report” means any written or electronic communication that includes research analysis or research recommendation or an opinion concerning securities or
public offer, providing a basis for investment decision and does not include the following communications:-
(i)
comments on general trends in the securities market;
(ii)
discussions on the broad-based indices;
(iii)commentaries on economic, political or market conditions;
(iv)periodic reports or other communications prepared for unit holders of mutual fund or alternative investment fund or clients of portfolio managers and investment advisers;
(v)internal communications that are not given to current or prospective clients;
(vi)communications that constitute offer documents or prospectus that are circulated as per regulations made by the Board;
(vii)statistical summaries of financial data of the companies;
(viii)technical analysis relating to the demand and supply in a sector or the index;
(ix)any other communication which the Board may specify from time to time;
(x)"securities" means securities as defined in clause (h) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956;
(y)"significant news or event" means any news or event which is expected to have a material impact on, or that reflects a material change to, the subject company's
Page 3 of 24
earnings, operations or financial condition, other than unpublished price sensitive information, as specified in the internal policies and procedures of the research analyst or research entity;
(z)“subject company” means the company whose securities are the subject of a research
report or a public appearance;
(za) "stock exchange" means a stock exchange recognised under section 4 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956);
(zb) “third party research report” means a research report produced by a person or entity other than the research analyst or research entity.
3. (1) On and from the commencement of these regulations, no person shall act as a research analyst or research entity or hold itself out as a research analyst unless he has obtained a certificate of registration from the Board under these regulations:
Provided that any person acting as research analyst or research entity before the commencement of these regulations may continue to do so for a period of six months from such commencement or, if it has made an application for a certificate of registration under sub-regulation (2) within the said period of six months, till the disposal of such application:
Provided further that an investment adviser, credit rating agency, asset management company or fund manager, who issues research report or circulates/distributes research report to public or its director or employee who makes public appearance, shall not be required to seek registration under regulation 3, subject to compliance of Chapter III of these regulations.
(2)An application for grant of certificate of registration shall be made in Form A as specified in the First Schedule to these regulations and shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee to be paid in the manner specified in Second Schedule.
4.Any person located outside India engaged in issuance of research report or research analysis in respect of securities listed or proposed to be listed on a stock exchange shall enter into an agreement with a research analyst or research entity registered under these regulations.
Page 4 of 24
5.(1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish further information or clarification for the purpose of consideration of the application filed under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3.
(2) The applicant or his authorised representative, if so required, shall appear before the Board for personal representation.
6. For the purpose of the grant of certificate the Board shall take into account all matters which are relevant to the grant of certificate of registration and in particular the following, namely:-
(i)whether the applicant is an individual or a body corporate or limited liability partnership firm;
(ii)whether in case the applicant is an individual, he is appropriately qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7;
(iii)whether in case the applicant is a body corporate, the individuals employed as research analyst are qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7;
(iv)whether in case the applicant is a partnership firm or a limited liability partnership, partners engaged in issuance of research report or research analysis are qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7;
(v)whether in case the applicant is a research entity, the individuals employed as research analyst are qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7;
(vi)whether the applicant fulfills the capital adequacy requirements as specified in regulation 8;
(vii)whether the applicant, individuals employed as research analyst and partners of the applicant, if any, are fit and proper persons based on the criteria as specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008;
(viii)whether the applicant has the necessary infrastructure to effectively discharge the activities of research analyst;
(ix)whether the applicant or any person directly or indirectly connected with the applicant has in the past been refused certificate by the Board and if so, the grounds for such refusal;
(x)whether any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board or any other regulatory authority against the applicant or any person directly or indirectly connected to the applicant under the respective Act, rules or regulations made thereunder.
7.(1) An individual registered as research analyst under these regulations, individuals employed as research analyst and partners of a research analyst, if any, engaged in preparation and/or publication of research report or research analysis shall have the following minimum qualifications, at all times:
Page 5 of 24
(i)A professional qualification or post-graduate degree or post graduate diploma in finance, accountancy, business management, commerce, economics, capital market, financial services or markets provided by:
(a)a university which is recognized by University Grants Commission or by any other commission/council/board/body established under an Act of Parliament in India for the purpose; or
(b)an institute/association affiliated with such university; or
(c)an institute/ association/university established by the central government or state government; or
(d)autonomous institute falling under administrative control of Government of India;
or
(ii)professional qualification or post-graduate degree or post graduate diploma which is accredited by All Indian Council for Technical Education, National Assessment and Accreditation Council or National Board of Accreditation or any other council/board/body set up under an Act of Parliament in India for the purpose; or
(iii)a graduate in any discipline with an experience of at least five years in activities relating to financial products or markets or securities or fund or asset or portfolio management.
(2)An individual registered as research analyst under these regulations, individuals employed as research analyst and partners of a research analyst, if any, shall have, at all times, a NISM certification for research analysts as specified by the Board or other certification recognized by the Board from time to time:
8. (1) A research analyst who is individual or partnership firm shall have net tangible assets of value not less than one lakh rupees.
(2)A research analyst who is body corporate or limited liability partnership firm shall have a networth of not less than twenty five lakh rupees.
(3)All existing research analysts shall comply with the capital adequacy requirement within one year from the date of commencement of these regulations.
Explanation.─ For the purposes of this regulation, "networth" means the aggregate value of paid up share capital plus free reserves (excluding reserves created out of revaluation) reduced by the aggregate value of accumulated losses.
Page 6 of 24
9. The Board on being satisfied that the applicant complies with the requirements specified in regulation 6, shall send intimation to the applicant and on receipt of the payment of registration fees as specified in Second Schedule, grant certificate of registration in Form B under First Schedule, subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may deem fit and appropriate.
10. The certificate of registration granted under regulation 9 shall be valid 1[till it is suspended or cancelled by the Board].
2[11. The research analyst who has already been granted certificate of registration by the Board, prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Research Analysts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 shall be deemed to have been granted a certificate of registration, subject to payment of fee, as prescribed in Schedule II of these regulations.]
12. (1) After considering an application made under regulation 3, if the Board is of the opinion that a certificate should not be granted to the applicant, it may reject the application after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(2)The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant within thirty days of such decision.
(3)Where an application for a certificate is rejected by the Board, the applicant shall forthwith cease to act as a research analyst:
Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall affect the liability of the applicant under the law.
13. The certificate granted under regulation 9 shall, inter alia, be subject to the following conditions:-
(i) the research analyst shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations;
1Substituted for the words “for a period of five years from the date of its issue” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.
2Substituted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution regulation 11 read as under:
“11. (1) Three months before the expiry of the period of validity of the certificate, the research analyst may, if he so desires, make an application in Form A for grant of renewal of certificate of registration.
(2)The application for renewal under sub-regulation (1) shall be dealt with in the same manner as if it were an application made under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3 for grant of certificate.”
Page 7 of 24
(ii)the research analyst shall forthwith inform the Board in writing, if any information or particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be false or misleading in any
material particular or if there is any material change in the information already submitted; (iii)research analyst registered under these regulations shall use the term ‘research analyst’
14. (1) The Board may recognize any body or body corporate for the purpose of regulating research analysts.
(2)The Board may, at the time of recognition of such body or body corporate, delegate administration, supervision and regulation of research analysts to such body or body corporate on such terms and conditions as may be specified by the Board.
15. (1) Research analyst or research entity shall have written internal policies and control procedures governing the dealing and trading by any research analyst for:
(i)addressing actual or potential conflict of interest arising from such dealings or trading of securities of subject company;
(ii)promoting objective and reliable research that reflects the unbiased view of research analyst; and
(iii)preventing the use of research report or research analysis to manipulate the securities market.
16. (1) Personal trading activities of the individuals employed as research analyst by research entity shall be monitored, recorded and whereever necessary, shall be subject to a formal approval process.
(2)Independent research analysts, individuals employed as research analyst by research entity or their associates shall not deal or trade in securities that the research analyst recommends or follows within thirty days before and five days after the publication of a research report.
Page 8 of 24
(3)Independent research analysts, individuals employed as research analysts by research entity or their associates shall not deal or trade directly or indirectly in securities that he reviews in a manner contrary to his given recommendation.
(4)Independent research analysts, individuals employed as research analysts by research entity or their associate shall not purchase or receive securities of the issuer before the issuer's initial public offering, if the issuer is principally engaged in the same types of business as companies that the research analyst follows or recommends.
(5)Provisions of sub-regulations (2) to (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis to a research entity unless it has segregated its research activities from all other activities and maintained an arms-length relationship between such activities.
(6)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulations (2) to (4), such restrictions to trade or deal in securities may not apply in case of significant news or event concerning the subject company or based upon an unanticipated significant change in the personal financial circumstances of the research analyst, subject to prior written approval as per the terms specified in the approved internal policies and procedures.
17. (1) Research entity shall not pay any bonus, salary or other form of compensation to any individual employed as research analyst that is determined or based on any specific merchant banking or investment banking or brokerage services transaction.
(2)The compensation of all individuals employed as research analyst shall be reviewed, documented and approved annually by board of directors/committee appointed by board of directors of the research entity, which does not consist of representation from its merchant banking or investment banking or brokerage services divisions.
(3)The board of directors/committee appointed by board of directors of the research entity approving or reviewing the compensation of individual employed as research analyst shall not take into account such individual’s contribution to the research entity's investment banking or merchant banking or brokerage services business.
(4)An individual employed as research analyst by research entity shall not be subject to the supervision or control of any employee of the merchant banking or investment banking or brokerage services divisions of that research entity.
18. (1) Research analyst or research entity shall not publish or distribute research report or research analysis or make public appearance regarding a subject company for which he has acted as a manager or co-manager at any time falling within a period of:
(a)Forty days immediately following the day on which the securities are priced if the offering is an initial public offering; or
(b)Ten days immediately following the day on which the securities are priced if the offering is a further public offering:
Page 9 of 24
Provided that research analyst or research entity may publish or distribute research report or research analysis or make public appearance within such forty day and ten day periods, subject to prior written approval of legal or compliance personnel as specified in the internal policies and procedures.
(2)A research entity who has agreed to participate or is participating as an underwriter of an issuer's initial public offering shall not publish or distribute a research report or make public appearance regarding that issuer before expiry of twenty five days from the date of the offering.
Explanation.- For the purposes of sub-regulations (1) and (2), the date of the offering refers to the first date on which the security was offered to the public.
(3)Research analyst or research entity who has acted as a manager or co-manager of public offering of securities of a company shall not publish or distribute a research report or make a public appearance concerning that company within fifteen days prior to date of entering into and fifteen days after the expiration/waiver/termination of a lock-up agreement or any other agreement that the research analyst or research entity has entered into with a subject company that restricts or prohibits the sale of securities held by the subject company after the completion of public offering of securities:
Provided that research analyst or research entity may publish or distribute research report or research analysis or make public appearance regarding that company within such fifteen days subject to prior written approval of legal or compliance personnel as specified in the internal policies and procedures.
(4)Research analyst or individuals employed as research analyst by research entity shall not participate in business activities designed to solicit investment banking or merchant banking or brokerage services business, such as sales pitches and deal road shows.
(5)Research analyst or individuals employed as research analyst by research entity shall not engage in any communication with a current or prospective client in the presence of personnel from investment banking or merchant banking or brokerage services divisions or company management about an investment banking services transaction.
(6)Investment banking or merchant banking or brokerage services division’s personnel of research entity shall not direct the individuals employed as research analyst to engage in sales or marketing related to an investment banking or merchant banking or brokerage services and shall not direct the research analyst to engage in any communication with a current or prospective client about such division’s transaction:
Provided that sub-regulations (4) to (6) shall not prohibit research analyst or research entity from engaging in investor education activities including publication of pre-deal research and briefing the views of the research analyst on the transaction to the sales or marketing personnel.
(7)Research analyst or research entity shall have adequate documentary basis, supported by research, for preparing a research report.
(8)Research analyst or research entity shall not provide any promise or assurance of favourable review in its research report to a company or industry or sector or group of companies or business group as consideration to commence or influence a business relationship or for the receipt of compensation or other benifits.
Page 10 of 24
(9)Research analyst or research entity shall not issue a research report that is not consistent with the views of the individuals employed as research analyst regarding a subject company.
(10)Research entity shall ensure that the individuals employed as research analyst are separate from other employees who are performing sales trading, dealing, corporate finance advisory or any other activity that may affect the independence of its research report:
19. A research analyst or research entity shall disclose all material information about itself including its business activity, disciplinary history, the terms and conditions on which it offers research report, details of associates and such other information as is necessary to take an investment decision, including the following:
(i)Research analyst or research entity shall disclose the following in research report and in public appearance with regard to ownership and material conflicts of interest:
(a)whether the research analyst or research entity or his associate or his relative has any financial interest in the subject company and the nature of such financial interest;
(b)whether the research analyst or research entity or its associates or relatives, have actual/beneficial ownership of one per cent. or more securities of the subject company, at the end of the month immediately preceding the date of publication of the research report or date of the public appearance;
(c)whether the research analyst or research entity or his associate or his relative, has
any other material conflict of interest at the time of publication of the research report or at the time of public appearance;
(ii)Research analyst or research entity shall disclose the following in research report with regard to receipt of compensation:
(a)whether it or its associates have received any compensation from the subject company in the past twelve months;
(b)whether it or its associates have managed or co-managed public offering of securities for the subject company in the past twelve months;
(c)whether it or its associates have received any compensation for investment banking or merchant banking or brokerage services from the subject company in the past twelve months;
(d)whether it or its associates have received any compensation for products or services other than investment banking or merchant banking or brokerage services from the subject company in the past twelve months;
(e)whether it or its associates have received any compensation or other benefits from the subject company or third party in connection with the research report.
(iii)Research analyst or research entity shall disclose the following in public appearance with regard to receipt of compensation:
Page 11 of 24
(a)whether it or its associates have received any compensation from the subject company in the past twelve months;
(b)whether the subject company is or was a client during twelve months preceding the date of distribution of the research report and the types of services provided: Provided that research analyst or research entity shall not be required to make a disclosure as per sub-clauses (c), (d) and (e) of clause (ii) or sub-clauses (a) and
(b)of clause (iii) to the extent such disclosure would reveal material non-public information regarding specific potential future investment banking or merchant banking or brokerage services transactions of the subject company.
(iv)whether the research analyst has served as an officer, director or employee of the subject company;
20. (1) Research analyst or research entity shall take steps to ensure that facts in its research reports are based on reliable information and shall define the terms used in making recommendations, and these terms shall be consistently used.
(2)Research analyst or research entity that employs a rating system must clearly define the meaning of each such rating including the time horizon and benchmarks on which a rating is based.
(3)If a research report contains either a rating or price target for subject company’s securities and the research analyst or research entity has assigned a rating or price target to the securities for at least one year, such research report shall also provide the graph of daily closing price of such securities for the period assigned or for a three-year period, whichever is shorter.
21. (1) Research analyst or research entity including its director or employee shall disclose the registration status and details of financial interest in the subject company, if he makes public appearance.
(2)If any person including a director or employee of an investment adviser or credit rating agency or asset management company or fund manager, makes public appearance or makes a recommendation or offers an opinion concerning securities or public offers through public media, all the provisions of regulations 16 and 17 shall apply mutatis mutandis to him and he shall disclose his name, registration status and details of financial interest in the subject company at the time of,-
(i)making such recommendation or offering such opinion in personal capacity;
(ii)responding to queries from audiences or journalists in personal capacity; (iii)communicating the research report or substance of the research report through the public
media.
Page 12 of 24
22. (1) A research report shall not be made available selectively to internal trading personnel or a particular client or class of clients in advance of other clients who are entitled to receive the research report.
(2)Research analyst or research entity who distributes any third party research report shall review the third party research report for any untrue statement of material fact or any false or misleading information.
(3)Research analyst or research entity who distributes any third party research report shall disclose any material conflict of interest of such third party research provider or he shall provide a web address that directs a recipient to the relevant disclosures.
(4)Provisions of sub-regulations (2) and (3) shall not apply to a research analyst or research entity if he has no direct or indirect business or contractual relationship with such third party research provider.
23. (1) All the provisions of Chapter II, III, IV, V and VI shall apply mutatis mutandis to the proxy adviser:
Provided that the employees of proxy advisors engaged in providing proxy advisory services shall be required to have a minimum qualification of being a graduate in any discipline:
Provided further that certification requirements for employees of proxy advisors engaged in providing proxy advisory services shall be as specified by the Board:
Provided further that time period for compliance with capital adequacy as provided in sub- regulation (3) of regulation 8, for proxy advisors shall be three years.
(2)The proxy adviser shall additionally disclose the following:
(i)the extent of research involved in a particular recommendation and the extent and/or effectiveness of its controls and procedures in ensuring the accuracy of issuer data;
(ii)policies and procedures for interacting with issuers, informing issuers about the recommendation and review of recommendations;
(3)Proxy adviser shall maintain the record of his voting recommendations and furnish the same to the Board on request.
24. (1) Research analyst or research entity shall maintain an arms-length relationship between its research activity and other activities.
(2)Research analyst or research entity shall abide by Code of Conduct as specified in Third Schedule.
Page 13 of 24
(3)In case of change in control of the research analyst or research entity, prior approval from the Board shall be taken.
(4)Research analyst or research entity shall furnish to the Board information and reports as may be specified by the Board from time to time.
(5)It shall be the responsibility of the research analyst or research entity to ensure that its employees or partners, as may be applicable, comply with the certification and qualification requirements under regulation 7 at all times.
25. (1) Research analyst or research entity shall maintain the following records:
(i)research report duly signed and dated;
(ii)research recommendation provided;
(iii)rationale for arriving at research recommendation;
(iv)record of public appearance.
(2)All records shall be maintained either in physical or electronic form and preserved for a minimum period of five years:
Provided that where records are required to be duly signed and are maintained in electronic form, such records shall be digitally signed.
27. The Board may suo motu or upon receipt of information or complaint appoint one or more persons as inspecting authority to undertake inspection of the books of accounts, records and documents relating to research analyst or research entity for any of the following reasons, namely:-
(i)to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being maintained in the manner specified in these regulations;
(ii)to inspect into complaints received from any person, on any matter having a bearing
on the activities of a research analyst;
(iii)to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act and these regulations are being complied with by the research analyst or research entity;
Page 14 of 24
(iv)to inspect into the affairs of research analyst or research entity in relation to research activities, in the interest of the securities market or in the interest of investors.
28. (1) Before ordering an inspection under regulation 27, the Board shall give not less than seven days notice to research analyst or research entity.
(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may by an order in writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the research analyst or research entity be taken up without such notice.
(3)During the course of an inspection, the research analyst or research entity against whom the inspection is being carried out shall be bound to discharge its obligations as provided in regulation 29.
29. (1) It shall be the duty of every research analyst or research entity in respect of whom an inspection has been ordered under the regulation 27 and any other associate person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of such research analyst or research entity including their representative, if any, to produce to the inspecting authority such books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control and furnish him with such statements and information as the inspecting authority may require for the purposes of inspection.
(2)It shall be the duty of research analyst or research entity and any other associate person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of the research analyst to give to the inspecting authority all such assistance and shall extend all such co-operation as may be required in connection with the inspection and shall furnish such information as sought by the inspecting authority in connection with the inspection.
(3)The inspecting authority shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to examine on oath and record the statement of any employee, director, partner or person responsible for or connected with the activities of research analyst or research entity or any other associate person having relevant information pertaining to such research analyst or research entity.
(4)The inspecting authority shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to obtain authenticated copies of documents, books, accounts of research analyst or research entity, from any person having control or custody of such documents, books or accounts.
30. The inspecting authority shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection submit an inspection report to the Board:
Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, the inspecting authority may submit an interim report.
Page 15 of 24
31. The Board may after consideration of the inspection report and after giving reasonable opportunity of hearing to research analyst or research entity or its authorized representatives, without prejudice to any other action under the Act, issue such directions as it deems fit in the interest of securities market or the investors including requiring research analyst or research entity not to provide research recommendation for a particular period;
(i)requiring the research analyst or research entity to refund any money collected as fees, charges or commissions or otherwise to the concerned clients along with the requisite interest.
32. Research analyst or research entity who:
(i)contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or any regulations or circulars issued thereunder;
(ii)fails to furnish any information relating to its activity as a research analyst as required by the Board;
(iii)furnishes to the Board information which is false or misleading in any material particular;
(iv)does not submit periodic returns or reports as required by the Board;
(v)does not co-operate in any enquiry, inspection or investigation conducted by the Board;
(vi)fails to resolve the complaints or fails to give a satisfactory reply to the Board in this behalf,
32A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to testing new products,
3Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17-04-2020.
Page 16 of 24
processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis.
33. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars.
34. The Board reserves the right to alter, modify and overrule any decision, action taken or penalties imposed by the body or body corporate recognized under regulation 14.
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India(Procedure for Search and Seizure) Regulations, 2014.
(2)These regulations shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.'computer or other data storage device' includes any other computer or data storage device, whether at the place which is being searched or at any other place which is lawfully accessible by means of that computer.
3. An Investigating Authority, having reason to believe that any or all of the grounds specified under sub-section (8) of section 11C of the Act exist, may make a request in writing in physical or electronic mode as per Form A of the Schedule to the Chairman for issuance of warrant of authority, specifying therin the grounds reasons for multiple execution, if required and the details of the person or enterprise and its building, place, vessel, vehicle or aircraft whose search is required to be authorised,.
4.(1) On receipt of the request under regulation 3, the Chairman may, after being satisfied that it is necessary to do so, authorise the Investigating Authority or any other officer of the Board as the authorised officer by issuing a warrant of authority as per
2
Form-B of the Schedule.
(2) The Chairman may authorise multiple execution of the warrant of authority during the period in which it is in force.
5.(1) A warrant of authority shall be signed and sealed by the Chairman.
(2)Every warrant of authority issued by the Chairman shall remain in force until it is cancelled by the Chairman or until it is executed, or till the expiry of the time limit specified for execution in the warrant of authority, whichever is earlier
(3)A warrant of authority issued to more than one officer of the Board, may be executed by all or any one or more of them.
(4)A warrant of authority issued to any officer of the Board shall expire on the date of the order of the transfer of such officer.
6. A warrant of authority issued under these regulations shall be returned to the Chairman,-
(a)after being executed fully along with the seizure memo, or
(b)if not executed, whether partially or not, within the time authorised, if any, for its execution, on the expiry of such time.
8 (1) If ingress into any, place or building cannot be so obtained or no one is present in the place or building , it shall be lawful for the authorised officer executing the warrant of authority, to enter such building or place and search therein and in order to
3
effect an entrance into such building or place, to break open any outer or inner door or window of any building or place, whether that of the person to be searched or of any other person, if after notification of his authority and purpose and demand of admittance duly made, he cannot otherwise obtain admittance.
Provided that if any such building or place is an apartment in actual occupancy of a woman, who according to custom does not appear in public, the authorised officer shall, before entering such apartment, give notice to such woman that she is at liberty to withdraw and shall afford her every reasonable facility for withdrawing and may then break open any outer or inner door or window of the apartment and enter it.
(2)The authorised officer may require any person who is the owner, or has the immediate possession, or control, of any box, locker, safe, almirah or any other receptacle situate in such building, place to open the same and allow access to inspect or examine its contents, and, where the keys thereof are not available or where such person fails to comply with any such requirement, may cause any action to be taken including the breaking open of such box, locker, safe, almirah or other receptacle which the Authorised Officer may deem necessary for carrying out all or any of the purposes specified under the warrant of authority.
(3)The authorised officer may require any person who is the owner, or has the immediate possession, or control of such building or place, pending the commencement of the search, not to remove from such building or place, any article or other thing.
(4)The authorised officer may requisition the services of any police officer or of any officer of the Central Government or State Government or all of them, to assist him for all or any of the purposes specified in Warrant of Authority.
(5)The authorised officer may search, with such assistance, as may be required, any building or place, authorised to be searched, where such information or documents are expected or believed to be kept.
9. (1) The authorised officer on production of the warrant of authority to any person in charge of vessel, vehicle or aircraft, authorised to be searched, shall have the free ingress to vessel, vehicle or aircraft for the purpose of execution of warrant of authority.
(2)If ingress into any vessel, vehicle or aircraft authorised to be searched cannot be obtained because such vessel, vehicle or aircraft is moving or for any other reason, it shall be lawful for the authorised officer executing the warrant of authority, to require the person for the time being in control of the vehicle, vessel or aircraft to stop any such vessel or vehicle or, in the case of an aircraft, compel it to stop or land, and when stopped to refrain from moving it, or if the vehicle, vessel or aircraft is already stationary, to refrain from moving it, and search any part of the vessel, vehicle or aircraft.
(3)The authorised officer shall have authority, in order to effect an entrance into such vessel, vehicle or aircraft, to break open any outer or inner door or window of any such vessel, vehicle or aircraft, if after notification of his authority and purpose and demand
4
of admittance duly made, he cannot otherwise obtain admittance:
Provided that if any such vessel, vehicle or aircraft is occupied by a woman, who according to custom does not appear in public, the authorised officer shall, before entering such vessel, vehicle or aircraft, give notice to such woman that she is at liberty to withdraw and shall afford her every reasonable facility for withdrawing.
(4)The authorised officer may require any person who is the owner, or has the immediate possession, or control, of any box, locker, safe, or any other receptacle situate in such vessel, vehicle or aircraft, to open the same and allow access to inspect or examine its contents, and where the keys thereof are not available or where such person fails to comply with any such requirement, may cause any action to be taken including the breaking open of such box, locker, safe or other receptacle which the authorised officer may deem necessary for carrying out all or any of the purposes specified in the warrant of authority.
(5)Where the search relates to a vehicle and the place where the authorised officer finds the vehicle is in the opinion of the authorised officer unsuitable for the search, it shall be lawful for the authorised officer to require the person for the time being in control of the vehicle forthwith to take the vehicle or cause it to be taken to a place which the authorised officer considers suitable for the search and which he specifies and require the person for the time being in control of such vehicle, to be in or on or to accompany the vehicle.
(6)The authorised officer may require any person for the time being in control of the vehicle, vessel or aircraft, pending the commencement of the search, not to remove from the vehicle, vessel or aircraft, any article or other thing.
(7)The authorised officer may requisition the services of any police officer or of any officer of the Central Government, or State Government or all of them, to assist him for all or any of the purposes specified in Warrant of Authority.
(8)The authorised officer may search, with such assistance, the vessel, vehicle or aircraft authorized to be searched, where such information or documents are expected or believed to be kept.
10.(1) Any person who has got out of or is about to get into or is in the building, place, vessel, vehicle or aircraft authorised to be searched under the warrant of authority, if the authorised officer has reason to suspect that such person has secreted about his person any such books of account or other documents, may be searched; and if such person is a female, the search shall be made by another female officer so authorised with strict regard to decency.
(2)The authorised officer may requisition the services of any police officer or of any officer of the Central Government or State Government or both to assist him for all or any of the purposes specified in warrant of authority.
5
11.(1) The authorised officer having authority to search any place or person, may,-
(a)use any reasonable measures to access a computer system or other data storage device, that the person being searched is carrying or that is in the person’s physical possession or immediate control;
(b)operate any computer or other data storage device at the place which is being searched or cause any such computer or other data storage device to be operated by a person accompanying the authorised officer, and
(c)
require any person at that place who appears to be an officer or person in a
 
position to facilitate access, to provide access to the information held in any
 
such computer or other data storage device which can be accessed by the use
 
of that computer or data storage device,-
(i)to give to the authorised officer any password necessary to operate it, or
(ii)otherwise to enable the authorised officer to examine the information accessible by the computer in a form in which the information is visible and legible.
12. The authorised officer while executing the warrant of authority, if so authorised, shall have the power of inspection of the documents found in any place, building, vessel, vehicle and aircraft.
13. The authorised officer while executing the warrant of authority, if authorised, shall have the power to seize any such books of account or other documents, found as a result of such search, or, get the signature of such persons under clauses (i) and (j) of sub regulation (2) of regulation 14 of these regulations over such documents as applicable:
Provided that the authorised officer may, where it is not practicable to seize any books of account or documents, serve an order as specified in Form- C or Form-D of the Schedule, as the case may be, on the owner or the person who is in immediate possession or control thereof that he shall not remove, part with or otherwise deal with it except with the previous permission of the authorised officer and such persons shall thereupon take such steps as may be necessary for ensuring compliance with the order.
14. (1) An authorised officer executing the warrant of authority shall, in the presence of the person from whom or whose premises,vessel, vehicle or aircraft the documents were seized, if such person is available, prepare a seizure memo in Form E of the Schedule duly signed by two witnesses, containing a list of all documents seized or copied in the course of such search and of the places in which they were respectively found and verify the inventory of any such documents seized:
6
Provided that in the case of seizure or copying of electronic storage media or the seizure or copying of electronically stored information, the authorised officer shall enter in Form F of the Schedule the description of the physical storage media that were seized or copied.
(2)The seizure memo shall contain the following details, as may be applicable:
(a)the time of entry into and exit from place, building, vessel, vehicle or aircraft;
(b)the identity of the persons searched;
(c)the address of place and building and details of vessel, vehicle or aircraft searched;
(d)the details of officers present, if any, at the time of seizure;
(e)the details of other persons present, if any, at the time of seizure;
(f)the signature of the authorised officer;
(g)the signature of the witnesses with thump impression and date;
(h)the description of identification mark, if any, placed by any person from whose possession or control the documents are seized;
(i)the signature of the owner or the person who is in immediate possession or control of premises, building, vehicle, vessel or aircraft, if available therein;
(j)the signature of the persons from whom the seizure is effected.
15. The authorised officer while executing the warrant of authority, if authorised, shall have the power to place mark of identification on any books of account or other documents:
Provided that any person from whose possession or control the document is seized shall be permitted to put his own identification mark on the documents seized:
Provided further that the description of such identification mark shall be recorded in the seizure memo.
16. The authorised officer while executing the warrant of authority shall have the power to make or cause to be made extracts or copy of documents or any books of account.
17. (1) The authorised officer while executing the warrant of authority shall have the power to record on oath the statement of any person who is found to be in possession or in control of the information or documents referred to in sub clauses (i), (iii) or (iv) of sub-section (8) of section 11C of the Act:
Provided that on the refusal to take oath by such persons, the statement maybe recorded, on recording such refusal in the statement duly singed by the authorised officer.
Provided further that no police officer requisitioned shall be permitted at the time of recording of statement.
(2)The authorised officer shall record the statement in the presence of two witnesses
7
whose signatures shall be appended to the statement so recorded:
Provided that the authorised officer on reasonable steps taken by him to find witness, finds that no witness is available or willing to stand as witness and on noting the same, shall record the statement, on the same being vediographed, and the statement shall not be invalid on the mere ground that no one has stood as witness for the recording of the statement.
18. (1) The authorised officer before executing the warrant of authority, shall,-
(a)identify himself or herself either by name or by official identification documents;
(b)show the warrant of authority to the person who occupies the premises or to any person in charge of vessel, vehicle or aircraft authorised to be searched and on request provide copy of such warrant of authority:
Provided if such person is not present a copy of the warrant shall be pasted in a prominent place on the premises, vessel, vehicle or aircraft authorised to be searched;
(c)conduct search and seizure if any, in the presence of the witnesses and prepare panchnama as prescribed in Form-G of the Schedule if witnesses are available.
(d)deliver a copy of the seizure memo prepared under regulation 14 to any person from whose possession or control the documents are seized;
(2)The authorised officer executing the warrant of authority, shall not enter at any place of business or profession after daytime.
Provided that the warrant of authority may continue to be executed after day time, if the entry of the authorised officer is at day time.
Provided further that in respect of any other dwelling place, wherein the books of account, other documents have been stated or believed to be kept, the search shall be initiated, resumed and completed only in daytime, unless authorised to the contrary:
Provided further that in respect of vessel, vehicle or aircraft or any building or place other than the dwelling place, wherein the books of account, other documents have been stated or believed to be kept, the search can be initiated and continued at any time.
(3)The authorised officer shall execute the warrant of authority within the time limit, prescribed, if any, in the warrant of authority:
19. The occupant of the building, place, vessel, vehicle or aircraft searched, including the person in charge of such vessel, vehicle or aircraft, shall have the right,-
(a)to see the warrant of authority and authorised officer and to obtain a copy thereof;
(b)to verify the identity of the authorised officer and officials assisting him;
(c)to be present during the search and seizure;
(d)to put his own mark of identification on the documents seized along with his signature, stamp,seal etc.
(e)to have copy of document seized or take extracts therefrom, in the presence of the authorised officer or any other person authorised by him in this behalf, at such place and reasonable time as the authorised officer may appoint in this behalf;
(f)to have a copy of any statement recorded during search and seizure;
20. (1) Any person in charge of or in any building, place, authorised to be searched shall, on demand by the authorised officer to execute warrant of authority and on production of the authority, identify any person as may be required by the authorised officer.
(2)Any person in charge of or in any vessel, vehicle or aircraft authorised to be searched shall, on demand by the authorised officer, locate and identify the vessel, vehicle or aircraft.
(3)Any person in charge of or in any building, place, vessel, vehicle or aircraft authorised to be searched shall, on demand by the authorised officer to execute a warrant of authority and on production of such authority, allow him free ingress thereto and afford all reasonable facilities for a search therein.
(4)Any person who has the immediate control of any vessel, vehicle or aircraft authorised to be searched, if moving, shall stop any such vessel or vehicle or stop and cause to be landed any such aircraft on communication of the authority of authorised officer to search and seize.
(5)Any person in charge of the business or person in charge of electronic records shall be bound to disclose the password and such other information as may be asked for by the authorised officer.
(6)Any person who is found to be in possession or control of any books of account or other documents, maintained in the form of electronic record, shall provide the authorised officer the necessary facility to inspect such books of account or other documents.
(7)Any person who is the owner or has the immediate possession or control of any box, locker, safe, almirah or any other receptacle situate in such building, place, vessel,
9
vehicle or aircraft authorised for search, shall identify such receptacles in which assets or books of account and documents are kept and to hand over keys of such receptacles to the authorised officer.
21. (1) The documents seized shall be transmited in safe manner to the place of custody.
(2)The authorised officer who is not the Investigating Authority, shall hand over the documents seized along with the seizure memo to the Investigating Authority.
(3)The Investigating Authority shall keep in his custody the books, registers, other documents and records seized under these regulations for such period not later than the conclusion of the investigation as he considers necessary.
Provided that such books, registers, other documents and records shall not be retained by the Investigating Authority for a period exceeding one hundred and eighty days from the date of seizure, except with the approval of the Chairman.
(4)The authorised officer or the Investigating Authority, as the case may be, shall ensure that records in physical form are not altered, damaged, mutilated, and the records in electronic form is not altered or erased.
(5)The authorised officer or the Investigating Authority, as the case may be, shall ensure that the physical documents and electronic storage devices on which electronic records are stored, are maintained and stored in suitable physical and environmental conditions.
22.(1) The Investigating Authority shall return the documents kept under regulation 21 to the company or the other body corporate, or, as the case may be, to the managing director or the manager or any other person from whose or custody or power they were seized:
Provided that the Investigating Authority may, before returning such books, registers, other documents and record as aforesaid, place identification mark on them or any part thereof.
(2)Any personal information severable from any document seized and kept in accordance with these regulations shall be returned by the Investigating Authority to the person to whom such information relates on a written request being made in this behalf by him.
23.The personal information contained in any document seized and kept in accordance with these regulations shall not be divulged to any third person, except for the
10
compliance of any law for the time being in force, without the consent of the person to whom the information relates.
24.Notwithstanding anything contained in regulation 22 of these regulations, -
(a)the forensic copy of the data or mirror image of the storage device and any copy
thereof may be retained, on being satisfied that such data or image has evidentiary value.
25. Without prejudice to any action under any law for the time being in force,
(a)any intermediary who fails to comply with any of the obligations while execution of warrant of authority, shall be liable for any one or more of the following actions:
i.adjudication under section 15HB of the Act;
ii.proceedings under Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008;
iii.prosecution under section 24 of the Act;
(b)any person other than an intermediary who fails to comply with any of the obligations while execution of warrant of authority, shall be liable for any one or more of the following actions:
i.adjudication under section 15HB of the Act;
ii.action under section 11B and sub-section (4) of section 11 of the Act;
iii.prosecution under section 24 of the Act.
26.In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the provisions of these regulations, the Board may issue guidance or circulars.
