  no insider shall communicate, provide, or allow access to any unpublished price sensitive information, relating to a company or securities listed or proposed to be listed, to any person including other insiders except where such communication is in furtherance of legitimate purposes, performance of duties or discharge of legal obligations.
 no person shall procure from or cause the communication by any insider of unpublished price sensitive information, relating to a company or securities listed or proposed to be listed, except in furtherance of legitimate purposes, performance of duties or discharge of legal obligations.
 [(2a) the board of directors of a listed company shall make a policy for determination of “legitimate purposes” as a part of “codes of fair disclosure and conduct” formulated under regulation 8.
explanation – for the purpose of illustration, the term “legitimate purpose” shall include sharing of unpublished price sensitive information in the ordinary course of business by an insider with
 [(2b) any person in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information pursuant to a “legitimate purpose” shall be considered an “insider” for purposes of these regulations and due notice shall be given to such persons to maintain confidentiality of such unpublished price sensitive information in compliance with these regulations.]
 for purposes of sub-regulation (3), the board of directors shall require the parties to execute agreements to contract confidentiality and non-disclosure obligations on the part of such parties and such parties shall keep information so received confidential, except for the purpose of sub-regulation (3), and shall not otherwise trade in securities of the company when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information.
 5[(5) the board of directors shall ensure that a structured digital database is maintained containing the names of such persons or entities as the case may be with whom information is shared under this regulation along with the permanent account number or any other identifier authorized by law where permanent account number is not available. such databases shall be
  no insider shall trade in securities that are listed or proposed to be listed on a stock exchange when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information:
provided further that such off-market trades shall be reported by the insiders to the company within two working days. every company shall notify the particulars of such trades to the stock exchange on which the securities are listed within two trading days from receipt of the disclosure or from becoming aware of such information.];
 in the case of connected persons the onus of establishing, that they were not in possession of unpublished price sensitive information, shall be on such connected persons and in other cases, the onus would be on the board.
  an insider shall be entitled to formulate a trading plan and present it to the compliance officer for approval and public disclosure pursuant to which trades may be carried out on his behalf in accordance with such plan.
 such trading plan shall:–
 set out either the value of trades to be effected or the number of securities to be traded along with the nature of the trade and the intervals at, or dates on which such trades shall be effected; and
 the compliance officer shall review the trading plan to assess whether the plan would have any potential for violation of these regulations and shall be entitled to seek such express undertakings as may be necessary to enable such assessment and to approve and monitor the implementation of the plan.
 0[provided that pre-clearance of trades shall not be required for a trade executed as per an approved trading plan.
provided further that trading window norms and restrictions on contra trade shall not be applicable for trades carried out in accordance with an approved trading plan.]
 the trading plan once approved shall be irrevocable and the insider shall mandatorily have to implement the plan, without being entitled to either deviate from it or to execute any trade in the securities outside the scope of the trading plan.
provided that the implementation of the trading plan shall not be commenced if any unpublished price sensitive information in possession of the insider at the time of formulation of the plan has not become generally available at the time of the commencement of implementation and in such event the compliance officer shall confirm that the commencement ought to be deferred until
 upon approval of the trading plan, the compliance officer shall notify the plan to the stock exchanges on which the securities are listed.
  every public disclosure under this chapter shall be made in such form as may be specified.
 the disclosures to be made by any person under this chapter shall include those relating
 the disclosures of trading in securities shall also include trading in derivatives of securities and the traded value of the derivatives shall be taken into account for purposes of this chapter:
 the disclosures made under this chapter shall be maintained by the company, for a minimum period of five years, in such form as may be specified.
  every promoter 21[, member of the promoter group] , key managerial personnel and director of every company whose securities are listed on any recognised stock exchange shall disclose his holding of securities of the company as on the date of these regulations taking effect, to the company within thirty days of these regulations taking effect;
  every person on appointment as a key managerial personnel or a director of the company or upon becoming a 22[promoter or member of the promoter group] shall disclose his holding of securities of the company as on the date of appointment or becoming a promoter, to the company within seven days of such appointment or becoming a promoter.
  every promoter 23[, member of the promoter group], 24[designated person] and director of every company shall disclose to the company the number of such securities acquired or disposed of within two trading days of such transaction if the value of the securities traded, whether in one transaction or a series of transactions over any calendar quarter, aggregates to a traded value in excess of ten lakh rupees or such other value as may be specified;
  every company shall notify the particulars of such trading to the stock exchange on which the securities are listed within two trading days of receipt of the disclosure or from becoming aware of such information.
explanation. — it is clarified for the avoidance of doubts that the disclosure of the incremental transactions after any disclosure under this sub-regulation, shall be made when the transactions effected after the prior disclosure cross the threshold specified in clause (a) of sub-regulation (2).
 ‘monetary sanctions’ shall mean any non-monetary settlement terms or any direction of the board, in the nature of disgorgement under securities laws aggregating to at least rupees one crore arising from the same operative facts contained in the original information.
 words and expressions used but not defined in these regulations but defined in securities laws, shall have the same meanings respectively assigned to them in those laws or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto.
 b. (1) an informant shall submit original information by furnishing the voluntary information disclosure form to the office of informant protection of the board in the format and manner set out in schedule d. the voluntary information disclosure form may be submitted through informant’s legal representative:
 the legal representative shall,-
 an informant shall while submitting the voluntary information disclosure form shall expunge such information from the content of the information which could reasonably be expected to reveal his or her identity and in case where such information cannot be expunged, the informant may identify such part of information or any document that the informant believes could reasonably be expected to reveal his or her identity.
 the office of informant protection shall perform such functions as may be specified by the board, including,-
 on receipt of the voluntary information disclosure form, the office of informant protection shall communicate the substance of the information along with the evidence submitted by the informant to the relevant department or division of the board for examination and initiation of necessary action, if any.
 the board shall not be required to send any intimation or acknowledgement to the informant or any other person, of the examination or action initiated by the board, if any, pursuant to receipt of the voluntary information disclosure form or information under these regulations, including rejection thereof.
provided that the amount of reward shall be ten percent of the monetary sanctions collected or recovered and shall not exceed rupees one crore or such higher amount as the board may specify from time to time:
 in case of more than one informant jointly providing the original information, the reward, as specified in the intimation under sub-regulation (1), shall be divided equally amongst the total number of informants.
 the reward under these regulations shall be paid from the investor protection and education fund.
 e. (1) the amount of the reward, if payable, shall be determined by the board.
 f. (1) informants who are considered tentatively eligible for a reward, shall submit the informant reward claim form set out in schedule e to the board within the period specified in the intimation sent by the board.
 prior to the payment of a reward, an informant shall directly or through his or her legal representative, disclose his or her identity and provide such other information as the board may require.
 g. no reward shall be made to an informant:-
provided that sharing of information shall be in accordance with such assurances of confidentiality as the board determines appropriate.
explanation - nothing in these regulations is intended to limit, or shall be construed to limit, the ability of the public prosecutor to share such evidence with potential witnesses or accused in connection with any criminal proceedings.
 the original information and identity provided by an informant shall be held in confidence and exempted from disclosure under clauses (g) and (h) of sub-section (1) of section 8 of the right to information act, 2005 (no. 22 of 2005).
 subject to the law of evidence for the time being in force, nothing in these regulations shall prejudice the right of the board to use or to rely on information received otherwise.
 no person shall have the right to compel disclosure of the identity, existence of an informant or the information provided by an informant, except to the extent relied upon in any proceeding initiated against such person by the board.
explanation 1. – the confidentiality in respect of the identity and existence of the informant shall be maintained throughout the process of investigation, inquiry and examination as well as during any proceedings before the board and save where the evidence of the informant is required during such proceedings, advance notice of such evidence may be provided to the noticee at least seven (7) working days prior to the date of the scheduled hearing for evidence.
 i. (1) every person required to have a code of conduct under these regulations shall ensure that such a code of conduct provides for suitable protection against any discharge, termination, demotion, suspension, threats, harassment, directly or indirectly or discrimination against any employee who files a voluntary information disclosure form, irrespective of whether the information is considered or rejected by the board or he or she is eligible for a reward under these regulations, by reason of:
explanation 2. - nothing in this regulation shall require the employee to establish that,-
 nothing in these regulations shall prohibit any informant who believes that he or she has been subject to retaliation or victimisation by his or her employer, from approaching the competent court or tribunal for appropriate relief.
 nothing in these regulations shall diminish the rights and privileges of or remedies available to any informant under any other law in force.
 no person shall by way of any threat or act impede an individual from communicating with the board, including enforcing or threatening to enforce, a confidentiality agreement (other than agreements related to legal representations of a client and communications there under) with respect to such communications.
explanation. - no employer shall require an employee to notify him of any voluntary information disclosure form filed with the board or to seek its prior permission or consent or guidance of any person engaged by the employer before or after such filing.
 k. (1) nothing in these regulations shall be deemed to provide any amnesty or immunity to an informant for violation of securities law.
 where an action against an informant is deemed appropriate, the board while determining the value of monetary sanctions shall not take into account the monetary sanctions that the informant is ordered to pay or that which any other person is ordered to pay if the liability of such other person is based substantially on the conduct that the informant directed, planned, or initiated.
 l. (1) the informant incentive committee shall be assisted by the office of informant protection.
 the informant incentive committee shall give its recommendations to the board on the following matters,-
 the informant incentive committee shall conduct its meetings in the manner specified by the board in this regard.
 m. (1) the board shall upload on its website the following,-
explanation. – nothing in this regulation shall require the board to disclose information that could identify the informant or the information provided by the informant.]
  the board of directors of every company, whose securities are listed on a stock exchange, shall formulate and publish on its official website, a code of practices and procedures for fair disclosure of unpublished price sensitive information that it would follow in order to adhere to each of the principles set out in schedule a to these regulations, without diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner.
 every such code of practices and procedures for fair disclosure of unpublished price sensitive information and every amendment thereto shall be promptly intimated to the stock exchanges where the securities are listed.
  the board of directors of every listed company and 26[the board of directors or head(s) of the organisation of every intermediary shall ensure that the chief executive officer or managing director] shall formulate a code of conduct 27[with their approval] to regulate, monitor and report trading by its 28[designated persons and immediate relatives of designated persons] towards achieving compliance with these regulations, adopting the minimum standards set out in schedule b 29[(in case of a listed company) and schedule c (in case of an intermediary)] to these regulations, without diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner.
required to handle unpublished price sensitive information in the course of business operations shall formulate a code of conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading by their designated persons and immediate relative of designated persons towards achieving compliance with these regulations, adopting the minimum standards set out in schedule c to these regulations, without diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner.
explanation - professional firms such as auditors, accountancy firms, law firms, analysts, insolvency professional entities, consultants, banks etc., assisting or advising listed companies shall be collectively referred to as fiduciaries for the purpose of these regulations.]
“every other person who is required to handle unpublished price sensitive information in the course of business operations shall formulate a code of conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading by employees and other connected persons towards achieving compliance with these regulations, adopting the minimum standards set out in schedule b to these regulations, without diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner.”
 every listed company, 36[intermediary] and other persons formulating a code of conduct shall identify and designate a compliance officer to administer the code of conduct and other requirements under these regulations.
 7[(4) for the purpose of sub regulation (1) and (2), the board of directors or such other analogous authority shall in consultation with the compliance officer specify the designated persons to be covered by the code of conduct on the basis of their role and function in the organisation and the access that such role and function would provide to unpublished price sensitive information in addition to seniority and professional designation and shall include:-
 a. (1) the chief executive officer, managing director or such other analogous person of a listed company, intermediary or fiduciary shall put in place adequate and effective system of internal controls to ensure compliance with the requirements given in these regulations to prevent insider trading.
  the internal controls shall include the following:
  all the unpublished price sensitive information shall be identified and its confidentiality shall be maintained as per the requirements of these regulations;
  adequate restrictions shall be placed on communication or procurement of unpublished price sensitive information as required by these regulations;
  lists of all employees and other persons with whom unpublished price sensitive information is shared shall be maintained and confidentiality agreements shall be signed or notice shall be served to all such employees and persons;
  all other relevant requirements specified under these regulations shall be complied with;
 the board of directors of every listed company and the board of directors or head(s) of the organisation of intermediaries and fiduciaries shall ensure that the chief executive officer or the managing director or such other analogous person ensures compliance with regulation 9 and sub-regulations (1) and (2) of this regulation.
 the audit committee of a listed company or other analogous body for intermediary or fiduciary shall review compliance with the provisions of these regulations at least once in a financial year and shall verify that the systems for internal control are adequate and are operating effectively.
 every listed company shall formulate written policies and procedures for inquiry in case of leak of unpublished price sensitive information or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive information, which shall be approved by board of directors of the company and accordingly initiate appropriate inquiries on becoming aware of leak of unpublished price sensitive information or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive information and inform the board promptly of such leaks, inquiries and results of such inquiries.
 the listed company shall have a whistle-blower policy and make employees aware of such policy to enable employees to report instances of leak of unpublished price sensitive information.
 if an inquiry has been initiated by a listed company in case of leak of unpublished price sensitive information or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive information, the relevant intermediaries and fiduciaries shall co-operate with the listed company in connection with such inquiry conducted by listed company.]
 0.any contravention of these regulations shall be dealt with by the board in accordance with the act.
 0[11. (1) in order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the provisions of these regulations, the board shall have the power to issue directions through guidance notes or circulars:
provided that where any direction is issued by the board in a specific case relating to interpretation or application of any provision of these regulations, it shall be done only after affording a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the concerned persons and after recording reasons for the direction.]
 the previous operation of the repealed regulations or anything duly done or suffered thereunder, any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under the repealed regulations, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against the repealed regulations, or any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid, shall remain unaffected as if the repealed regulations had never been repealed; and
 anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken including any adjudication, enquiry or investigation commenced or show-cause notice issued under the repealed regulations prior to such repeal, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of these regulations;
 after the repeal of securities and exchange board of india (prohibition of insider trading) regulations, 1992, any reference thereto in any other regulations made, guidelines or circulars issued thereunder by the board shall be deemed to be a reference to the corresponding provisions of these regulations.
 the compliance officer shall report to the board of directors and in particular, shall provide reports to the chairman of the audit committee, if any, or to the chairman of the board of directors at such frequency as may be stipulated by the board of directors, 45[but not less than once in a year].
 all information shall be handled within the organisation on a need-to-know basis and no unpublished price sensitive information shall be communicated to any person except in furtherance of 46[***] legitimate purposes, performance of duties or discharge of 47[***] legal obligations. the code of conduct shall contain norms for appropriate chinese walls procedures,
  48[designated persons and immediate relatives of designated persons] in the organisation shall be governed by an internal code of conduct governing dealing in securities. 49[***]
“the board of directors shall in consultation with the compliance officer specify the designated persons to be covered by such code on the basis of their role and function in the organisation. due regard shall be had to the
 0[4. (1) designated persons may execute trades subject to compliance with these regulations. towards this end, a notional trading window shall be used as an instrument of monitoring trading by the designated persons. the trading window shall be closed when the compliance officer determines that a designated person or class of designated persons can reasonably be expected to have possession of unpublished price sensitive information. such closure shall be imposed in relation to such securities to which such unpublished price sensitive information relates. designated persons and their immediate relatives shall not trade in securities when the trading window is closed.
  51[trading restriction period 52[shall] be made applicable from the end of every quarter till 48 hours after the declaration of financial results. the gap between clearance of accounts by audit committee and board meeting should be as narrow as possible and preferably on the same day to avoid leakage of material information.]
 3[(3) the trading window restrictions mentioned in sub-clause (1) shall not apply in respect of –
 the timing for re-opening of the trading window shall be determined by the compliance officer taking into account various factors including the unpublished price sensitive information in question becoming generally available and being capable of assimilation by the market, which in any event shall not be earlier than forty-eight hours after the information becomes generally available. 54[***]
 when the trading window is open, trading by designated persons shall be subject to pre- clearance by the compliance officer, if the value of the proposed trades is above such thresholds as the board of directors may stipulate. 55[***]
 prior to approving any trades, the compliance officer shall be entitled to seek declarations to the effect that the applicant for pre-clearance is not in possession of any unpublished price sensitive information. he shall also have regard to whether any such declaration is reasonably capable of being rendered inaccurate.
 the code of conduct shall specify any reasonable timeframe, which in any event shall not be more than seven trading days, within which trades that have been pre-cleared have to be executed by the designated person, failing which fresh pre-clearance would be needed for the trades to be executed.
“the trading window shall also be applicable to any person having contractual or fiduciary relation with the company, such as auditors, accountancy firms, law firms, analysts, consultants etc., assisting or advising the company.”
“no designated person shall apply for pre-clearance of any proposed trade if such designated person is in possession of unpublished price sensitive information even if the trading window is not closed.”
“the compliance officer shall confidentially maintain a list of such securities as a “restricted list” which shall be used as the basis for approving or rejecting applications for preclearance of trades.”
 0.the code of conduct shall specify the period, which in any event shall not be less than six months, within which a designated person who is permitted to trade shall not execute a contra trade. the compliance officer may be empowered to grant relaxation from strict application of such restriction for reasons to be recorded in writing provided that such relaxation does not violate these regulations. should a contra trade be executed, inadvertently or otherwise, in violation of such a restriction, the profits from such trade shall be liable to be disgorged for remittance to the board for credit to the investor protection and education fund administered by the board under the act.
 7[provided that this shall not be applicable for trades pursuant to exercise of stock options.]
 1.the code of conduct shall stipulate such formats as the board of directors deems necessary for making applications for pre-clearance, reporting of trades executed, reporting of decisions not to trade after securing pre-clearance 58[***] and for reporting level of holdings in securities at such intervals as may be determined as being necessary to monitor compliance with these regulations.
 2.without prejudice to the power of the board under the act, the code of conduct shall stipulate the sanctions and disciplinary actions, including wage freeze, suspension, 59[recovery, clawback] etc., that may be imposed, by the 60[listed company] required to formulate a code of conduct under sub-regulation (1) 61[***]of regulation 9, for the contravention of the code of conduct.
 3.the code of conduct shall specify that in case it is observed by the 62[listed company] required to formulate a code of conduct under sub-regulation (1) 63[***]of regulation 9, that there has been a violation of these regulations, 64[it] shall inform the board promptly.
 5[14. designated persons shall be required to disclose names and permanent account number or any other identifier authorized by law of the following persons to the company on an annual basis and as and when the information changes:
in addition, the names of educational institutions from which designated persons have graduated and names of their past employers shall also be disclosed on a one time basis.
explanation – the term “material financial relationship” shall mean a relationship in which one person is a recipient of any kind of payment such as by way of a loan or gift 66[from a designated person] during the immediately preceding twelve months, equivalent to at least 25% 67[of the annual income of such designated person] but shall exclude relationships in which the payment is based on arm’s length transactions.]
 8[15. listed entities shall have a process for how and when people are brought ‘inside’ on sensitive transactions. individuals should be made aware of the duties and responsibilities attached to the receipt of inside information, and the liability that attaches to misuse or unwarranted use of such information.]
 the compliance officer shall report to the board of directors or head(s) of the organisation (or committee constituted in this regard) and in particular, shall provide reports to the chairman of the audit committee or other analogous body, if any, or to the chairman of the board of directors or head(s) of the organisation at such frequency as may be stipulated by the board of directors or head(s) of the organization but not less than once in a year.
 all information shall be handled within the organisation on a need-to-know basis and no unpublished price sensitive information shall be communicated to any person except in furtherance of legitimate purposes, performance of duties or discharge of legal obligations. the code of conduct shall contain norms for appropriate chinese wall procedures, and processes for
