 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations,
 018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as follows:
“(vi) material events in accordance with the listing agreement”
Communication or procurement of unpublished price sensitive information.
NOTE: This provision is intended to cast an obligation on all insiders who are essentially persons in possession of unpublished price sensitive information to handle such information with care and to deal with the information with them when transacting their business strictly on a need-to-know basis. It is also intended to lead to organisations developing practices based on need-to-know principles for treatment of information in their possession.
 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019).
partners, collaborators, lenders, customers, suppliers, merchant bankers, legal advisors, auditors, insolvency professionals or other advisors or consultants, provided that such sharing has not been carried out to evade or circumvent the prohibitions of these regulations.]
 entail an obligation to make an open offer under the takeover regulations where the board of directors of the 9[listed] company is of informed opinion that 10[sharing of such information] is in the best interests of the company;
 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 0Substituted for the words “the proposed transaction” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019).
 1Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 2Substituted for the words “that the proposed transaction” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 3Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 4Substituted for the words “if it” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 5Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
maintained with adequate internal controls and checks such as time stamping and audit trails to ensure non-tampering of the database.]
Trading when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information.
 the transaction is an off-market inter-se transfer between 17[insiders] who were in possession of the same unpublished price sensitive information without being in breach of regulation 3 and both parties had made a conscious and informed trade decision.
 8[Provided that such unpublished price sensitive information was not obtained under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 3 of these regulations.
 6Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 7Substituted for the word “promoters” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 8Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 9[(ii) the transaction was carried out through the block deal window mechanism between persons who were in possession of the unpublished price sensitive information without being in breach of regulation 3 and both parties had made a conscious and informed trade decision;
Provided that such unpublished price sensitive information was not obtained by either person under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 3 of these regulations.
 the transaction in question was carried out pursuant to a statutory or regulatory obligation to carry out a bona fide transaction.
 the transaction in question was undertaken pursuant to the exercise of stock options in respect of which the exercise price was pre-determined in compliance with applicable regulations.]
 in the case of non-individual insiders: –
 the individuals who were in possession of such unpublished price sensitive information were different from the individuals taking trading decisions and such decision-making individuals were not in possession of such unpublished price sensitive information when they took the decision to trade; and
 appropriate and adequate arrangements were in place to ensure that these regulations are not violated and no unpublished price sensitive information was communicated by the individuals possessing the information to the individuals taking trading decisions and there is no evidence of such arrangements having been breached;
 the trades were pursuant to a trading plan set up in accordance with regulation 5.
 9Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
Trading Plans.
 not entail commencement of trading on behalf of the insider earlier than six months from the public disclosure of the plan;
 not entail trading for the period between the twentieth trading day prior to the last day of any financial period for which results are required to be announced by the issuer of the securities and the second trading day after the disclosure of such financial results;
 entail trading for a period of not less than twelve months;
 not entail overlap of any period for which another trading plan is already in existence;
 not entail trading in securities for market abuse.
Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to the Securities Market) Regulations, 2003.
 0Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
such unpublished price sensitive information becomes generally available information so as to avoid a violation of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4.
CHAPTER – III
DISCLOSURES OF TRADING BY INSIDERS
General provisions.
to trading by such person’s immediate relatives, and by any other person for whom such person takes trading decisions.
Provided that trading in derivatives of securities is permitted by any law for the time being in force.
Disclosures by certain persons.
  Initial Disclosures.
 Continual Disclosures.
 1Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. January 21, 2019)
 2Substituted for the word "promoter" by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. January 21, 2019)
 3Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. January 21, 2019)
 4Substituted for the word “employee” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
Disclosures by other connected persons.
 5[CHAPTER – IIIA
Definitions.
 A. (1) In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:-
 ‘Investor Protection and Education Fund’ means the Investor Protection and Education Fund created by the Board under section 11 of the Act;
 ‘Informant’ means an individual(s), who voluntarily submits to the Board a Voluntary Information Disclosure Form relating to an alleged violation of insider trading laws that has occurred, is occurring or has a reasonable belief that it is about to occur, in a manner
 5 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. December 26, 2019)
provided under these regulations, regardless of whether such individual(s) satisfies the requirements, procedures and conditions to qualify for a reward;
 ‘insider trading laws’ means the following provisions of securities laws,-
 Section 15G of the Act;
 regulation 3 of these regulations;
 regulation 4 of these regulations;
 regulation 5 of these regulations; and
 regulation 9 or regulation 9A of these regulations, in so far as they pertain to trading or communication of unpublished price sensitive information.
 ‘irrelevant, vexatious and frivolous information’ includes, reporting of information which in the opinion of the Board, -
 Does not constitute a violation of insider trading laws; or
 Is rendered solely for the purposes of malicious prosecution; or
 Is rendered intentionally in an effort to waste the time and resource of the Board.
 ‘Legal Representative’ means a duly authorised individual who is admitted to the practice of law in India;
 ‘Original Information’ means any relevant information submitted in accordance with these regulations pertaining to any violation of insider trading laws that is:-
 derived from the independent knowledge and analysis of the Informant;
 not known to the Board from any other source, except where the Informant is the original source of the information;
 is sufficiently specific, credible and timely to - (1) commence an examination or inquiry or audit, (2) assist in an ongoing examination or investigation or inquiry or audit, (3) open or re-open an investigation or inquiry, or (4) inquire into a different conduct as part of an ongoing examination or investigation or inquiry or audit directed by the Board;
 not exclusively derived from an allegation made in a judicial or administrative hearing, in a Governmental report, hearing, audit, or investigation, or from the news media, except where the Informant is the original source of the information; and
 not irrelevant or frivolous or vexatious.
Explanation. –Information which does not in the opinion of the Board add to the information already possessed by the Board is not original information.
Provided that such analysis is not derived from professional or confidential communication protected under the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872);
 ‘own knowledge’ means relevant information in the possession of the Informant not derived from publicly available sources:
Provided that such knowledge is not derived from professional or confidential communications protected under the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872);
 ‘Reward’ means any gratuitous monetary amount for which an Informant is declared eligible as per the provisions of these regulations;
 ‘securities laws’ means the Act, the Securities Contract (Regulations) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996), the relevant provisions of any other law
to the extent it is administered by the Board and the relevant rules and regulations made thereunder;
 ‘voluntarily providing information’ means providing the Board with information before receiving any request, inquiry, or demand from the Board, any other Central or State authorities or other statutory authority about a matter, to which the information is relevant;
Submission of Original Information to the Board
 The legal representative shall,-
 Verify the identity and contact details of the Informant;
 Unless otherwise required by the Board, maintain confidentiality of the identity and existence of the Informant, including the original Voluntary Information Disclosure Form;
 Undertake and certify that he/she,-
 Has reviewed the completed and signed Voluntary Information Disclosure Form for completeness and accuracy and that the information contained therein is true, correct and complete to the best of his/her knowledge;
 Has obtained a irrevocable consent from the Informant to provide to the Board with original Voluntary Information Disclosure Form whenever required by the Board; and
 Agrees to be legally obligated to provide the original Voluntary Information Disclosure Form within seven (7) calendar days of receiving such requests from the Board.
 Submits to the Board, the copy of the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form in the manner provided in Schedule D of these regulations along with a signed certificate as required under clause (iii) of this sub-regulation (2).
Receipt of Original Information by the Board
 Receiving and registering the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form;
 Making all necessary communications with the Informant;
 Maintaining a hotline for the benefit of potential Informant;
 Maintaining confidentiality of the legal representative of the Informant and act as an interface between the Informant and the officers of the Board;
 Interacting with the Informant Incentive Committee;
 Issuing press releases and rewards relating to Informant; and
 Submitting an annual report to the Board relating to the functioning of the Office of Informant Protection.
Informant Reward.
Determination of amount of Reward.
organization’s compliance officer subsequently providing the same Information to the Board.
Application for Reward.
Rejection of claim for Reward.
 who does not submit original information;
 who has acquired the Original Information, through or as a member, officer, or an employee
of:-
 any regulatory agency constituted by or under any law in India or outside India, including the Board;
 any self-regulatory organization;
 the surveillance or investigation wings of any recognised stock exchange or clearing corporation; or
 any law enforcement organization including the police or any central or state revenue authorities.
 who wilfully refused to cooperate with the Board during its course of investigation, inquiry, audit, examination or other proceedings under securities laws;
 who:
 knowingly makes any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or
 uses any false writing or document knowing that the writing or document contains any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry; or
 fails to furnish the complete information available with him or accessible by him in relation to the alleged violation.
 who is obligated, under any law or otherwise, to report such Original Information to the Board, including a compliance officer under securities laws.
Informant confidentiality.
 when it is required to be disclosed in connection with any legal proceedings in furtherance of the Board’s legal position;
 as permitted by these regulations; or
 any regulatory agency constituted by or under any law in India or outside India;
 any self-regulatory organization;
 the surveillance or investigation wings of any recognised stock exchange or clearing corporation; or
 any law enforcement organization including the police or any central or state revenue authorities; or
 a public prosecutor in connection with any criminal proceedings.
Protection against retaliation and victimisation
 filing a Voluntary Information Disclosure Form under these regulations;
 testifying in, participating in, or otherwise assisting or aiding the Board in any investigation, inquiry, audit, examination or proceeding instituted or about to be instituted for an alleged violation of insider trading laws or in any manner aiding the enforcement action taken by the Board; or
 breaching any confidentiality agreement or provisions of any terms and conditions of employment or engagement solely to prevent any employee from cooperating with the
Board in any manner.
 the Board has taken up any enforcement action in furtherance of information provided by such person; or
 the information provided fulfils the criteria of being considered as an Original Information under these regulations.
Void Agreements
No Amnesty
Functions of Informant Incentive Committee
 Eligibility of Informant for reward;
 Determination under regulations 7E and 7G; and
Public dissemination and incentivisation of Informant.
 Annual report of the Office of Informant Protection;
 Press release informing the public that an intimation to the Informant has been issued under Regulation 7D;
 Press release informing the public that a Reward has been paid under these regulations and the amount of Monetary Sanctions recovered pursuant to the information provided by the Informant;
 The Order issuing the Reward;
CHAPTER – IV
CODES OF FAIR DISCLOSURE AND CONDUCT
Code of Fair Disclosure.
NOTE: This provision is aimed at requiring transparent disclosure of the policy formulated in sub-regulation (1).
Code of Conduct.
NOTE: It is intended that every company whose securities are listed on stock exchanges and every 31[intermediary] registered with SEBI is mandatorily required to formulate a code of conduct governing trading by 32[designated persons and their immediate relatives]. The standards set out in the 33[schedules] are required to be addressed by such code of conduct.
 6 Substituted for the words “market intermediary” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 7Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 8Substituted for the words “employees and other connected persons” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 9Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 0Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 1Substituted for the words “market intermediary” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 2Substituted for the words “its employees” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 3Substituted for the word “schedule” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
  34[The board of directors or head(s) of the organisation, of every other person who is
 4 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019). Prior to substitution Sub-regulation (2) read as under:
 5 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019). Prior to substitution the Note read as under:
NOTE: This provision is intended to designate a senior officer as the compliance officer with the responsibility to administer the code of conduct and monitor compliance with these regulations.
 Employees of such listed company, intermediary or fiduciary designated on the basis of their functional role or access to unpublished price sensitive information in the organization by their board of directors or analogous body;
 Employees of material subsidiaries of such listed companies designated on the basis of their functional role or access to unpublished price sensitive information in the organization by their board of directors;
 All promoters of listed companies and promoters who are individuals or investment companies for intermediaries or fiduciaries;
 Chief Executive Officer and employees upto two levels below Chief Executive Officer of such listed company, intermediary, fiduciary and its material subsidiaries irrespective of their functional role in the company or ability to have access to unpublished price sensitive information;
 6 Substituted for the words “market intermediary” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 7Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 Any support staff of listed company, intermediary or fiduciary such as IT staff or secretarial staff who have access to unpublished price sensitive information.]
 8[Institutional Mechanism for Prevention of Insider trading.
  all employees who have access to unpublished price sensitive information are identified as designated 39[person];
 
periodic process review to evaluate effectiveness of such internal controls.
 8Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 If an inquiry has been initiated by a listed company in case of leak of unpublished price sensitive information or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive information, the relevant intermediaries and fiduciaries shall co-operate with the listed company in connection with such inquiry conducted by listed company.]
CHAPTER – V
MISCELLANEOUS
 0.Any contravention of these regulations shall be dealt with by the Board in accordance with the Act.
Provided that where any direction is issued by the Board in a specific case relating to interpretation or application of any provision of these regulations, it shall be done only after affording a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the concerned persons and after recording reasons for the direction.]
 1[(2) For the purpose of Chapter IIIA, the Board may,-
 by circular, specify procedures and processes for carrying out the purposes of these regulations;
 remove any difficulty in the interpretation or application or implementation of the provisions of these regulations, by issuing clarifications and specifying procedures through circulars or guidelines.]
Repeal and Savings.
  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 are hereby repealed.
 0 Renumbered as 11 (1) by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. December 26, 2019)
 1 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. December 26, 2019)
 After the repeal of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992, any reference thereto in any other regulations made, guidelines or circulars issued thereunder by the Board shall be deemed to be a reference to the corresponding provisions of these regulations.
SCHEDULE A
[See sub-regulation (1) of regulation 8]
Principles of Fair Disclosure for purposes of Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair
 Prompt public disclosure of unpublished price sensitive information that would impact price discovery no sooner than credible and concrete information comes into being in order to make such information generally available.
 Uniform and universal dissemination of unpublished price sensitive unpublished price sensitive information to avoid selective disclosure.
 Designation of a senior officer as a chief investor relations officer to deal with dissemination of information and disclosure of unpublished price sensitive information.
 Prompt dissemination of unpublished price sensitive information that gets disclosed selectively, inadvertently or otherwise to make such information generally available.
 Appropriate and fair response to queries on news reports and requests for verification of market rumours by regulatory authorities.
 Ensuring that information shared with analysts and research personnel is not unpublished price sensitive information.
 Developing best practices to make transcripts or records of proceedings of meetings with analysts and other investor relations conferences on the official website to ensure official confirmation and documentation of disclosures made.
 Handling of all unpublished price sensitive information on a need-to-know basis.
SCHEDULE B
[See sub-regulation (1) 42[***] of regulation 9]
Minimum Standards for Code of Conduct 43[for Listed Companies] to Regulate,
 All information shall be handled within the organisation on a need-to-know basis and no unpublished price sensitive information shall be communicated to any person except in furtherance of 46[***] legitimate purposes, performance of duties or discharge of 47[***] legal obligations. The code of conduct shall contain norms for appropriate Chinese Walls procedures,
  48[Designated Persons and immediate relatives of designated persons] in the organisation shall be governed by an internal code of conduct governing dealing in securities. 49[***]
 2Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as “and sub-regulation (2)”.
 3Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 4Substituted for the word “Insiders” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 5Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 6Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as “the insider’s”.
 7Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as “his”.
 8Substituted for the words “Employees and connected persons designated on the basis of their functional role
(“designated persons”)” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 9Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations,
 3[(3) The trading window restrictions mentioned in sub-clause (1) shall not apply in respect of –
 transactions specified in clauses (i) to (iv) and (vi) of the proviso to sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4 and in respect of a pledge of shares for a bonafide purpose such as raising of funds, subject to pre-clearance by the compliance officer and compliance with the respective regulations made by the Board;
access that such role and function would provide to unpublished price sensitive information in addition to seniority and professional designation.”
 0First paragraph numbered as sub-clause (1) and second and third paragraph combined and numbered as sub-clause
  by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019)
 2Substituted for the word “can” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019)
 When the trading window is open, trading by designated persons shall be subject to pre- clearance by the compliance officer, if the value of the proposed trades is above such thresholds as the board of directors may stipulate. 55[***]
 The code of conduct shall specify any reasonable timeframe, which in any event shall not be more than seven trading days, within which trades that have been pre-cleared have to be executed by the designated person, failing which fresh pre-clearance would be needed for the trades to be executed.
 4Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations,
“The trading window shall also be applicable to any person having contractual or fiduciary relation with the company, such as auditors, accountancy firms, law firms, analysts, consultants etc., assisting or advising the company.”
 5Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations,
“No designated person shall apply for pre-clearance of any proposed trade if such designated person is in possession of unpublished price sensitive information even if the trading window is not closed.”
 6Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations,
 2.Without prejudice to the power of the Board under the Act, the code of conduct shall stipulate the sanctions and disciplinary actions, including wage freeze, suspension, 59[recovery, clawback] etc., that may be imposed, by the 60[listed company] required to formulate a code of conduct under sub-regulation (1) 61[***]of regulation 9, for the contravention of the code of conduct.
 7Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 8Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as “recording of reasons for such decisions”.
 9Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 0Substituted for the word “persons” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 5[14. Designated persons shall be required to disclose names and Permanent Account Number or any other identifier authorized by law of the following persons to the company on an annual basis and as and when the information changes:
a)immediate relatives
b)persons with whom such designated person(s) shares a material financial relationship
Explanation – The term “material financial relationship” shall mean a relationship in which one person is a recipient of any kind of payment such as by way of a loan or gift 66[from a designated person] during the immediately preceding twelve months, equivalent to at least 25% 67[of the annual income of such designated person] but shall exclude relationships in which the payment is based on arm’s length transactions.]
 2Substituted for the word “persons” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 3Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as “and sub-regulation (2)”
 4Substituted for the word “they” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 5Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 6Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019)
 8[15. Listed entities shall have a process for how and when people are brought ‘inside’ on sensitive transactions. Individuals should be made aware of the duties and responsibilities attached to the receipt of Inside Information, and the liability that attaches to misuse or unwarranted use of such information.]
 8Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)
 9[SCHEDULE C
[See sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 9]
Minimum Standards for Code of Conduct for Intermediaries and Fiduciaries to Regulate,
 All information shall be handled within the organisation on a need-to-know basis and no unpublished price sensitive information shall be communicated to any person except in furtherance of legitimate purposes, performance of duties or discharge of legal obligations. The code of conduct shall contain norms for appropriate Chinese Wall procedures, and processes for
 The compliance officer shall confidentially maintain a list of such securities as a “restricted list” which shall be used as the basis for approving or rejecting applications for pre-clearance of trades.
 0.Without prejudice to the power of the Board under the Act, the code of conduct shall stipulate the sanctions and disciplinary actions, including wage freeze, suspension, recovery, clawback etc., that may be imposed, by the intermediary or fiduciary required to formulate a
 2.All designated persons shall be required to disclose name and Permanent Account Number or any other identifier authorized by law of the following to the intermediary or fiduciary on an annual basis and as and when the information changes:
a)immediate relatives
b)persons with whom such designated person(s) shares a material financial relationship
 3. Intermediaries and fiduciaries shall have a process for how and when people are brought ‘inside’ on sensitive transactions. Individuals should be made aware of the duties and responsibilities attached to the receipt of Inside Information, and the liability that attaches to misuse or unwarranted use of such information.]
 0Substituted for the word “educations” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019)
 1Substituted for the word “studied” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019)
 2Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019)
 3Substituted for the words “of such payer’s annual income” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019)
